Prologue 



In this village, when the ripened ears of wheat sway in the breeze, it is said that a wolf runs through them. 

This is because one can make out the form of a running wolf in the shifting stalks of the wheat fields. 

When the wind is too strong and the stalks are blown over, it is send that the wolf has trampled them. When the harvest is 
poor, it is said that the wolf has eaten it. 

It was a nice turn of phrase, but it had a troublesome aspect that flawed it, she felt. 

Still, lately it was a popular sort of expression, and there were few remaining who wielded it with the sort of familiarity or 
awe it had held in the past. 

Although the autumn sky that was visible between the swaying stalks of wheat had not changed in hundreds of years, 
conditions below that sky had indeed changed. 

The villagers who tended the wheat as the years passed lived for seventy years at the most. 

Perhaps it would be worse for them to go centuries without changing. 

Maybe that is why there is no need for them to honor the ancient agreement, she thought. 

In any case, she knew she no longer had a place here. 

The mountains that rose in the east caused the clouds over the village to drift mostly north. 

She thought of her homeland beyond those drifting clouds and sighed. 

Returning her gaze from the sky to the fields, her eyes fell upon her magnificent tail, which twitched just past her nose. 
With nothing better to do, she set to grooming it. 

The autumn sky was high and clear. 

Har\>est time had come again. 

Many wolves were running through the wheat fields. 




Chapter 1 



“So that’s the last, then?” 

“Hmm, looks like. ..seventy pelts, on the nose. Always a pleasure.” 

“Hey, anytime. You’re the only one who’ll come this far into the mountains, Lawrence. I should be thanking you” 

“Ah, but for my trouble I get truly fine pelts. I’ll come again.” The usual pleasantries concluded, Lawrence managed to leave the 
village just around five o’clock. The sun was just beginning its climb when he left, and it was midday by the time he descended from the 
mountains and entered the plains. 

The weather was good; there was no wind. It was a perfect day lor dozing in the wagon as he crossed the plains. It seemed absurd 
t hat only recently he had felt the chill of the approaching winter. 

This was Lawrence’s seventh year as a traveling merchant, and Iris twenty- fifth since birth. He gave a huge yawn in the driver’s 

box. 

There were few grasses or trees of any notable height, so he had an expansive view. At the very edge of his field of vision, he could 
see a monastery that had been built some years earlier. 

He didn’t know what young noble was cloistered in this remote location. The masonry of the building was magnificent, and 
unbelievably it even had an iron gate. Lawrence seemed to remember that roughly twenty monks lived there, attended to by a si mila r 
number of manservants. 

When the monastery had first been built, Lawrence had anticipated fresh clientele; the monks were somehow able to secure 
supplies without employing independent merchants, though, so his dreams were fleeting. 

Admittedly the monks lived simply, tilling their fields, so trade with them would not be especially profitable. There was another 
problem in that they would probably solicit donations and leave their bills unpaid. 

As far as simple trade went, they were worse partners than out-and-out thieves. Still, there were times when trade with them was 
convenient. 

Thus Lawrence looked in the direction of the monastery with some small regret, but then his eyes narrowed. 

From the direction of the monastery, someone was waving at him . 

“What’s this?” 

The figure did not look like a manservant. They wore dark brown work clothes. The waving figure was covered in gray clothing. 
His deliberate approach likely meant some hassle, but ignoring him could make matters worse later. Lawrence reluctantly turned his horse 
toward the figure. 

Perhaps having realized that Lawrence was now headed his way, the figure stopped waving but made no move to approach. He 
appeared to be waiting for the cart’s arrival It would hardly be the first time that a Church- associated person demonstrated arrogance. 
Lawrence was in no mood to take every such insult personally. 

As he approached the monastery and the figure became clearer, Lawrence muttered in spite of himself: 

“. . . a knight?” 

He at first dismissed the idea as ridiculous, but as he drew nearer he saw that it was unmistakably a knight. The gray clothing was in 
feet silver armor. 

‘You, there! What’s your business here?” 

The distance between them was still too fer for conversation, which is why the knight yelled. He apparently felt no need to 
introduce him self, as if his position were obvious. 

“I am Lawrence, a traveling merchant. Do you require my service?” 

The monastery was now directly in front of him He was close enough to count the number of servants working in the fields to the 

south. 

He also noted that the knight in front of him was not alone. There was another one past the monastery, perhaps standing guard. 

“A merchant? There’s no town in the direction you came from, merchant,” said the knight haughtily, sticking out his chest as if to 
display the golden cross that was engraved there. 

But the mantle draped over his shoulders was gray, indicating a knight of low rank. His blond hair looked freshly cut, and his body 
did not look as if it had been though many battles; so his pride most likely came from being a new knight. It was important to deal with such 
men carefully. They tended to be excitable. 

So instead of replying, Lawrence took a leather pouch out of his breast pocket and slowly undid the twine that held it closed. Inside 
were candies made of crystallized honey. He plucked one out and popped it in his mouth, then offered the open bag to the knight. 

“Care for one?” 

“Mmm,” said the knight, hesitating momentarily before his desire for the sweet candy won out. 

Still, perhaps because of Iris position as a knight, a considerable amount of time passed between Iris initial nod and when he actually 
reached out and took a honey drop. 

“A half-day’s travel east of here there’s a small village in the mountains. I was trading salt there.” 




“Ah. I see you’ve a load in your cart. Salt as well?” 

“No, but Hits. Look,” said Lawrence, turning around and removing the tarp that covered Iris load, revealing a bundle of ma gnific ent 
marten pelts. A year’s salary of the night before him was paltry compared with its worth. 

“Mm And this?” 

“Ah, this is wheat I received from the village.” 

The sheaf of wheat in the comer of the mountain of furs had been harvested in the village where Lawrence had traded his salt. It 
was hardy in cold weather and resisted insects. He planned to sell it in the northwest, where crops had sustained heavy frost damage. 

“Hm Very well You may pass.” 

It was a strange way of speaking for someone who’d summoned him over so high-handedly earlier, but if Lawrence were to 
meekly say, ‘Yes, sir,” now, a fine merchant he’d be. 

“So, what occasions your post here, sir knight?” 

The knight’s brow kn itted in consternation at the question and furrowed still deeper as he glanced at the bag of honey drops. 

He was well and truly caught now. Lawrence undid the bag’s string closure and plucked out another sweet, giving it to the knight. 

“Mmm Delicious. I should thank you.” 

The knight was being reasonable. Lawrence inclined his head gratefully, using his best traders s mile . 

“The monks have caught wind of a big pagan festival that’s approaching. Thus the increased guard. Do you know anything of this 
festival?” 

If Iris face had betrayed any hint of Iris disappointment at the explanation, calling it a third-rate performance would have been 
generous. So Lawrence only affected a pained expression and answered, “Sadly, I know nothing.” This was of course a huge lie, but the 
knight was just as mistaken, so there was nothing for it. 

“Perhaps it truly is being held in secret, then. Pagans are a cowardly lot, after all” The knight was so mistaken it was amusing, but 
Lawrence merely agreed and took his leave. 

The knight nodded and thanked him again for the honey drops. 

Undoubtedly they had been delicious. Most of a knight’s money went to equipment and lodging; even an apprentice cobbler lived a 
better life. It had surely been a long time since the knight had eaten anything sweet. 

Not that Lawrence had any intention of giving him another piece. 

“Still, a pagan festival, they say?” Lawrence repeated the knight’s words to him self once the monastery was well behind him . 

Lawrence had an ink ling of what the knight was talking about. Actually, anyone from this area would know about it. 

But it was no “pagan festival,” For one thing, true pagans were farther north, or farther east. 

The festival that happened here was hardly something one needed knights to guard against. 

It was a simple harvest festival, of the sort to be found nearly anywhere. 

True, this area’s festival was somewhat grander than the typical celebration, which is probably why the monastery was keeping an 
eye on it and reporting to the city The Church had long been unable to keep control over the area, which undoubtedly made it all the more 
nervous about goings on. 

Indeed, the Church had been eager to hold inquisitions and convert heathens, and clashes between natural philosophers and 
theologians in the city were for from rare. The time when the Church could command the populace’s unconditional submission was 
vanishing. 

The dignity of the institution was beginning to crumble — even if the inhabitants of the cities said nothing, all were gradually beginning 
to realize it. In feet, the pope had recently had to petition the monarchs of several nations for fluids when tithes had come in below 
expectations. Such a tale would have been preposterous even ten years before. 

Thus the Church was desperate to regain its authority. 

“Business everywhere will suffer,” said Lawrence with a rueful smile, popping another honey drop into his mouth. 

The western skies were a more beautiful golden hue than the wheat in the fields by the time Lawrence arrived in the plains. Distant 
birds became tiny shadows as they hurried home, and here and there the frogs sang themselves to sleep. 

It appeared that the wheat fields had been mostly harvested, so the festival would undoubtedly begin soon — perhaps even as soon 
as the day after tomorrow. 

Before Lawrence lay the expanses of the village of Pasloe’s fertile wheat fields. The more abundant the harvest, the more 
prosperous the villagers. 

Furthermore, the noble who managed the land, one Count Ehrendott, was a famous area eccentric who enjoyed working in the 
fields him self 

Naturally the festival also enjoyed his support, and every year it was a riot of wine and song. 

Lawrence had not once participated in it, though. Unfortunately, outsiders were not permitted. 

“Ho there, good work!” Lawrence called out to a former driving a cart heaped hi gh with wheat in the comer of one of the fields. It 
was well- ripened wheat. Those who had invested in wheat futures could breathe a sigh of relief 

“What’s that?” 

“Might you tell me where to find Yarei?” Lawrence asked. 

“Oh, Yarei’ll be over yonder — see where the crowd is gathering? That field. It’s all youngsters at Iris place this year. Whoever’s 
slowest will wind up being the Holo!” said the former good-naturedly, Iris tan face smiling. It was the kind of guileless smile a merchant 
could never manage. 




Lawrence thanked the fanner with his best trader’s smile, and turned his horse toward Yard’s place. 

Just as the farmer had said, there was a crowd gathering wit hin its confines, and they were shouting something. They seemed to be 
making sport of the few who were still working the field, but it wasn’t ridicule at their lateness. The jeering was part of the festival 
As Lawrence lazily approached the crowd, he was able to make out their shouting. 

“There’s a wolf! A wolf!” 

“A wolf lies there!” 

“Who will be the last and catch the wolf? Who, who, who?” the villagers shouted, their laces so cheerful one wondered if they 
were drunk. None of them noticed Lawrence pulling his cart up behind the crowd. 

What they so enthusiastically called a wolf was in feet not a wolf at all Had it been real no one would have been laughing. 

The wolf was the harvest god, and according to village legend, it resided within the last stalk of wheat to be reaped. Whoever cut 
that stalk down would be possessed by the wolf it was said. 

“It’s the last bundle!” 

“Mind you, don’t cut too far!” 

“Holo flees from the greedy hand!” 

“Who, who, who will catch the wolf?” 

“It’s Yarei! Yarei Yarei Yarei!” 

Lawrence got off his wagon and peered at the crowd just as Yarei caught the last bundle of wheat. His lace was black with sweat 
and soil as he grinned and hefted the wheat high, threw his head back, and howled. 

“Awooooooo!” 

“It’s Holo! Holo, Holo, Holo!” 

“Awooooooo!” 

“Holo the wolf is here! Holo the wolf is here!” 

“Catch it, now! Catch it quick!” 

“Don’t let it escape!” 

The shouting men suddenly gave chase after Yarei 

The god of the bountiful harvest, once cornered, would possess a human and try to escape. Capture it and it would remain for 
another year. 

None knew if this god truly existed. But this was an old tradition in the area. 

Lawrence had traveled Hr and wide, so he put no stock in the teachings of the Church, but his feith in superstition was greater even 
than that of the farmers here. Too many times had he crossed mountains only to arrive in towns and find the price of his goods dropping 
precipitously. It was enough to make anyone superstitious. 

Thus he didn’t bat an eye at traditions that true believers or Church officials would’ve found outrageous. 

But it was inconvenient that Yarei was this year’s Holo. Now Yarei would be locked in a granary stocked with treats until the 
festival was over — close to a week — and would be impossible to talk to. 

“Nothing for it, I suppose... ’’said Lawrence, sighing as he returned to his wagon and made for the village heads residence. 

He had wanted to enjoy some drinks with Yarei and report on the events at the monastery, but if he didn’t sell the furs that were 
piled high in his wagon bed, he wouldn’t be able to pay for goods purchased elsewhere when the bills came due. He also wanted to sell the 
wheat he’d brought from the other village and couldn’t wait around for the festival to end. 

Lawrence talked briefly of the midday happenings at the monastery to the village head, who was busy with festival preparation. He 
politely declined the offer to stay the night and put the village behind him . 

Years before the Count began to manage the region, it had suffered under heavy taxes that drove up the prices of its exports. 
Lawrence had bought some of this unfavorably priced wheat and sold it for but a meager profit. He hadn’t done it to win favor with the 
village, but rather because he simply didn’t have the resources to compete with the other merchants lor the cheaper, finer grain. 
Nevertheless, the village was still grateful for his business then, and Yarei had been the middleman for the deal 

It was unfortunate that he couldn’t enjoy a drink with Yarei but once Holo appeared Lawrence would soon be chased out of the 
village as the festival came to its c lim ax. If he’d stayed the night, he wouldn’t have been able to stay long. As he sat on his wagon, 
Lawrence felt a sense of loneliness at being excluded thus. 

Nibbling on some vegetables he’d been given as a souvenir, he took the road west, passing cheerful farmers returning from their 
day’s work. 

Having returned to his lonely travel Lawrence envied the farmers with their friends. 

Lawrence was a traveling merchant and twenty- five years old. At twelve he’d apprenticed under a relative, and at eighteen he set 
out on his own. 

There were many places he had yet to visit, and he felt that the true test of his mettle as a trader was yet to come. 

Like any number of traveling merchants, his dream was to save enough money to open a shop in a town, but the dream still seemed 
distant. If he could seize upon a good opportunity it might not be so, but unfortunately the larger traders seized such opportunities with their 
money. 

Nevertheless, he hauled loads of goods across the countryside in order to pay his debts in a timely fashion. Even if he saw a good 
opportunity, he lacked the wherewithal to seize it. To a traveling merchant, such a thing was as unreachable as the moon in the sky. 

Lawrence looked up at the moon and sighed. He realized such sighs were more frequent lately, whether as a reaction to years of 




frantic trading simply to make ends meet, or because recently he’d gotten slightly ahead and was t hin kin g more about the future. 

Additionally, when he should have been thinking about little else besides creditors, payment deadlines, and getting to the next town 
as quickly as possible, thoughts chased one another through his head. 

Specifically, he thought of the people he’d met in his travels. 

He thought of the merchants he had come to know when visiting a town repeatedly on business and the villagers he had become 
acquainted with at Iris destinations. The maidservant he’d Men for during a long stay at an inn, waiting for a blizzard to pass. And on and 
on. 

In short, he longed for company more and more frequently. 

Such longing was an occupational hazard for merchants who spent the better part of a year alone in a wagon, but Lawrence had 
only recently begun to feel it. Until now, he’d always boasted that it would never happen to him . 

Still, having spent so many days alone with a horse, he started to feel that it would be nice if the horse could speak. 

Stories of carthorses becoming human were not uncommon among traveling merchants, and Lawrence had since the be ginning 
laughed off such yams as ridiculous, but lately he wondered if they could be true. 

When a young merchant went to buy a horse from a horse trader, some would even recommend a mare with a completely straight 
face, “just in case she turns human on you.” 

This had happened to Lawrence, who’d ignored the advice and bought a sturdy stallion. 

That same horse was working steadily in front of him even now, but as time passed and Lawrence grew lonely, he wondered if he 
mightn’t have been better off with a mare after all 

On the other hand, that horse hauled heavy loads day in and day out. Even if it were to become a human, it seemed impossible that 
it would fall in love with its master or use its mysterious powers to brin g them good fortune. 

It would probably want to be paid and given rest, Lawrence mused. 

As soon as this occurred to him , he felt that it was best if a horse stayed a horse, even if it did make him selfish. Lawrence s mile d 
bitterly and sighed as if tired of himself 

Presently he came to a river and decided to make camp for the night. The M moon was bright, but that did not guarantee that he 
wouldn’t fell into the river — and if that happened, calling it a “disaster” would be an understatement. He’d have to hang himself That kind 
of trouble he didn’t need. 

Lawrence pulled back on the reins, and the horse stopped at the signal, heaving two or three sighs as it realized its long- anticipated 
rest was here. 

Giving the rest of his vegetables to the horse, Lawrence took a bucket out of the wagon bed and drew some water from the river, 
setting it before the a nim al. As it happily slurped at the bucket, Lawrence drank some of the water he’d gotten from the village. 

Wine would’ve been nicer, but drinking without a partner only made the loneliness worse. Hiere was no guarantee he wouldn’t get 
staggering drunk, either, so Lawrence decided to go to bed. 

He’d halfheartedly nibbled on vegetables most of the way, so he had only a bit of beef before hopping back in the wagon bed. 
Normally he slept in the hempen taip that covered the bed, but tonight he had a wagonload of marten pelts, so it would be a waste not to 
sleep in them. They might make him smell a bit beastly in the morning, but it was better than freezing. 

But jumping right into the pelts would crush the wheat sheaf so in order to move them aside, he whisked the tarp off the wagon 

bed. 

The only reason he didn’t shout was because the sight that greeted him was flatly unbelievable. 

t? It 

Apparently, he had a guest. 

“Hey.” 

Lawrence wasn’t sure his voice actually made a sound. He was shocked and wondered if the loneliness had finally broken him and 
he was hallucinating. 

But after he shook his head and rubbed his eyes, his guest had not disappeared. 

The beautiful girl was sleeping so soundly it seemed a shame to wake her. 

“Hey, you there,” said Lawrence nonetheless, ret Liming to his senses. He meant to inquire what exactly would motivate someone to 
sleep in a wagon bed. In the worse case, it might be a village runaway. He didn’t want that kind of trouble. 

“...him?” came the girls defenseless response to Lawrence, her eyes still closed, her voice so sweet that it would make a poor 
traveling merchant — accustomed only to the brothels of the cities — lightheaded. 

She had a terrifying allure despite her obvious youth, nestled there in the furs and illu min ated by the moonlight. 

Lawrence gulped once before returning to reason. 

Given that she was so beautiful, if she was a prostitute, there was no telling how much he could be taken for if he was to so much as 
touch her. 

Considering the economics of the situation was a tonic fer more effective than any prayer. Lawrence regained his composure and 
raised his voice once again. 

“Hey, you there. What are you playing at, sleeping in someone’s cart?” 

The girl did not awaken. 

Fed up with this girl who slept so obstinately, Lawrence grabbed the pelt that supported her head and jerked it out from under her. 
The girl’s head flopped into the gap left by the pelt, and finally he heard her irritated squawk. 

He was about to raise his voice at her again, but then he froze. 




The girl had dog ears on her head. 

“Mm... hah...” 

Now that the girl seemed to be finally awake, Lawrence summoned his courage and spoke again. 

“You there, what are you doing, climbing in my wagon bed?” 

Lawrence had been robbed more than once by thieves and bandits as he crossed the countryside. He considered himself bolder 
and more courageous than the average person. He wasn’t one to quail just because the girl in front of him happened to have the ears of an 
a nim al. 

Despite the feet that the girl hadn’t answered his questions, Lawrence did not pose them again. 

This was because the girl, slowly awakening before him and entirely naked, was unspeakably beautiful. 

Her hair, illuminated by the moonlight in the wagon, looked as soft as silk and fell over her shoulders like the finest cloak. The 
strands that fell down her neck to her collarbone drew a line so beautiful it put the finest painting of the Virgin Mary to shame; her supple 
arms were so fine they seemed carved from ice. 

And exposed now in the middle of her body were her two small breasts, so beautiful they gave the impression of being carved from 
some inorganic material They gave off a strangely vital scent, as if housed within her arresting charm was a warmth. 

But such a fascinating spectacle could just as soon go awry. 

The girl slowly opened her mouth and looked skyward. Closing her eyes, she howled. 

“Auwoooooooooooo ! ” 

Lawrence felt a sudden fear — it blew through his body like a wind. 

The howl was the song a wolf would use to call its comrades, to chase and comer a human. 

This was no howl like Yarei had uttered earlier. It was a true howl Lawrence dropped the bite of beef from Iris mouth; Iris horse 
reared, startled. 

Then he realized something. 

The moonlit girl’s form — with the ears on her head. The ears of a beast. 

“. . . Hmph. ’Tis a good moon. Have you no wine?” she said, letting the howl fade away, drawing her elfin up, and s miling slightly. 
Lawrence came back to himself at the sound of her voice. 

What was before him was neither dog nor wolf It was a beautiful girl with the ears of such an animal though. 

“I have none. And what are you? Why do you sleep in my cart? Were you to be sold in town? Did you escape?” Lawrence meant 
to ask as authoritatively as he could, but the girl did not so much as move. 

“What, so you have no wine? Food, then . . .? My, such waste,” said the girl unconcernedly, her nose twitching. She spied the bit of 
beef Lawrence had almost eaten earlier, snapping it up and popping it into her mouth. 

As she chewed it, Lawrence did not fail to note the two sharp fengs behind the girl’s lips. 

“Are you some kind of demon?” he asked, his hand felling to the dagger at his waist. 

As traveling merchants often needed to convert large amounts of ciurency, they often carried their money in the form of items. The 
silver dagger was one such item, and silver was known as a holy metal strong against evil 

However, when Lawrence put his hand to the dagger and posed his question, the girl looked blankly at him , then laughed heartily. 
“Ah-ha-ha-ha! Me, a demon now?” 

Her mouth thrown open wide enough to drop the piece of meat, the girl was so adorable as to be disarming. 

Her two sharp fengs only added to her charm 
However, being laughed at made Lawrence angry. 

“H-how is that so amusing?” 

“Oh, it’s amusing, it is! That is surely the first time I’ve been called a demon.” 

Still giggling to herself the girl picked up the meat again and chewed it. She did have fengs. Add in her ears, and it was clear 
enough that she was no mere human. 

“What are you?” 

“Me?” 

“Who but you would I be talking to?” 

“The horse, say.” 

66 5? 

When Lawrence drew his dagger, the girl’s s mile disappeared. Her red-tinged amber eyes narrowed. 

“What are you, I say!” 

“Drawing a blade on me now? How lacking in manners.” 

“What?!” 

“Mm. Ah, I see. My escape was successful My apologies! I had forgotten,” said the girl with a s mile — a completely guileless and 
charming s mile . 

The s mile didn’t particularly sway him , but nevertheless Lawrence somehow felt that pointing a blade at a girl was an unseemly thing 
for a man to do, so he put it away. 




“I am called Holo. It has been some time since I’ve taken this form, but, well, it is quite nice.” 

As the girl looked herself over approvingly, Lawrence was so caught on the first half of what she’d said that he missed the second 

halt: 

“Holo?” 

“Mm Holo. A good name, no?” 

Lawrence had traveled far and wide over many lands, but there was only one place where he’d heard that name. 

None other than the harvest god of the village of Pasloe. 

“What a coincidence. I also know of one that goes by Holo.” 

It was bold of her to use the name of a god, but at least this told him that she was indeed a girl from the village. Perhaps she’d been 
hidden, raised in secret by her family, because of her ears and fangs. That would fit with her claim to have “escaped successfiilly.” 

Lawrence had heard talk of abnormal children like this being bom. They were called demon- children, and it was thought that a 
devil or spirit had possessed them at birth. If the Church discovered them they — along with their families — would be burned at the stake for 
demon worshipping. Such children were thus either abandoned in the mountains or raised in secret. 

But this was the first time Lawrence had ever actually seen such a child. He had always assumed they would be disgustingly bestial, 
but judging from appearance alone, this one was a plausible goddess. 

“Oh, ho, I have never met another Holo. Whence do they hail?” As the girl chewed the meat, it was hard to see her trying to 
deceive anyone. It seemed possible that having been raised in co nfin ement for so long, she really did believe herself to be a god. 

“It is the name of this areas harvest god. Are you a god?” 

At this, the girl’s moonlit lace was slightly troubled for a moment before she s mile d. 

“I have long been bound to this place and called its god. But I am nothing so great as a deity. I am merely Holo.” 

Lawrence guessed that this meant she’d been locked away in her home since she was bom. He felt a certain sympathy for the girL 
“By Tong,’ do you mean that you were bom here?” 

“Oh, no.” 

This was an unexpected answer. 

“I was bom far to the north.” 

“The north?” 

“Indeed. The summers there are short and the winters long. A world of silver.” 

Holo’s eyes narrowed as she seemed to gaze into the distance, and it was hard to imagine that she was lying. Her behavior as she 
re minis ced about the lands of the north was too natural to be an act. 

‘Have you ever been there?” 

Lawrence wondered if she was counterattacking, but if Holo was lying or merely repeating t hing s she’d heard from others, he 
would have been able to tell immediately 

His travels as a merchant had in fact led him to the fer north before. 

“I’ve been as far as Arohitostok. The year-round blowing snow is terrifying.” 

“ Hm . Haven’t heard of it,” replied Holo, inc lining her head slightly. 

He’d expected her to pretend to have knowledge. This was strange. 

“What places do you know?” he asked. 

“A place called Yoitsu.” 

Lawrence forced himself to say, “Don’t know it,” to quell the unease that rose within him . He did know of a place called Yoitsu, 
from an old story he’d heard at an inn in the north. 

“Were you bom there?” he asked. 

“I was. How is Yoitsu doing these days? Is everyone well?” Holo asked, slumping slightly. It was such a fleeting gesture that it 
couldn’t be an act. 

Yet Lawrence could not possibly believe her. 

After all, according to the story, the town of Yoitsu had been destroyed by ursine monsters six hundred years ago. 

‘Do you remember any other places?” 

“Mmm..it’s been so many centuries... ah, Nyohhira, there was a town called Nyohhira. It was a strange town, with hot springs. I 
would often go to bathe in them” 

There were still hot springs in the north at Nyohhira, where royalty and nobility often visited. 

But how many people in this area would even know of its existence? 

Ignoring Lawrence’s confused reverie, Holo spoke as if she were even now relaxing in the hot water, then suddenly she sneezed. 
“Mm. I do not mind taking human form, but it is unavoidably cold. Not enough fur,” said Holo, laughing and hiding herself again in 
the pile of marten pelts. 

Lawrence couldn’t help laughing at her appearance. There was something that still worried him, though, so he spoke to Holo as she 
snuggled into the fur pile. 

‘You said something about changing forms earlier — what was that about? 

At his question, Holo poked her head out of the pile. 

“I meant just what I said. I haven’t taken human fonn in some time. Charming, no?” she said with a smile. Lawrence couldn’t help 
agreeing, but he kept a straight face as he replied. The girl could make him lose his composure, that was certain. 




“Aside from a few extra details, you’re a human. Or what else? Are you a dog turned human, like the stories of horses turning 
human?” 

Holo stood at the slight provocation. Turning her back to him , she looked over her shoulder at him and responded steadily. 

“You can doubtless tell from my ears and tail that I am a proud wolf My fellow wolves, the animals of the lbrest, and the people of 
the village all acknowledge me. It is of the white tip of my tail that I am proudest. My ears anticipate every misfortune and hear every lie, 
and I have saved many friends from many dangers. When one speaks of the WisewolfofYoitsu, they speak of none other than me!” 

Holo sniffed proudly but soon remembered the cold and dove back under the fiirs. Hie tail at the base of her back was indeed 

moving. 

Not just ears, then — she had a tail as welL 

Lawrence thought back on her howl It was a true wolf s howl, unmistakably. Was this then truly Holo, wolf- god of the harvest? 
“No, it can’t be,” muttered Lawrence to him self as he reconsidered Holo. She seemed unconcerned about him as she narrowed her 
eyes in the warm fiirs. Seen thus, she was rather catlike, although that was not the issue at hand. Was Holo human or wasn’t she? That was 
the question. 

People who were actually possessed by demons didn’t fear the Church because their appearance was different — rather they feared 
it because the demon within them could cause outward calamities for which the Church made it widely known the penalty was death at the 
stake. 

But if Holo was instead a transformed a nim al like in the old tales, she might brin g good fortune or perform miracles. 

Indeed, if she was the Holo, god of the harvest, a wheat trader could ask for no finer companion. 

Lawrence turned his attention back to Holo. 

“Holo, was it?” 

“Yes?” 

“You said you were a wolf” 

“I did.” 

“But all you have are a wolfs ears and tail If you are truly a transformed wolf you should be able to take a wolfs form” 

Holo stared absently for a while at Lawrence’s words before something seemed to occur to her. 

“Oh, you’re telling me to show you my wolf form” 

Lawrence nodded at the truth of the statement but was in lact mildly surprised. 

He had expected her to either be flustered or to flatly lie. 

But she had done neither, instead looking simply irritated. 

T his expression of irritation was fer more persuasive than the clumsy lie — the assurance that she could transform — that he 
expected. 

“I don’t want to,” she said plainly. 

“Why not?” 

“Why do you want me to?” she shot back, pouting. 

Lawrence winced at her retort, but the question of whether Holo was human or not was an important one to him Recovering from 
his stumble, Lawrence put as much confidence as he could muster into his voice, trying to regain the conversational initiative. 

“If you were a person I would consider turning you in to the Church. Demons cause calamity, after all. But if you are really Holo, 
god of the harvest, in human form, then I needn’t turn you in.” 

Were she genuine, well — tales of transformed animals acting as envoys of good fortune still remained. Far from turning her in as a 
demon, he would happily offer her wine and bread. If not, the situation would be different. 

As Lawrence spoke, Holo wrinkled her nose, and her expression grew darker and darker. 

“From what I have heard, transformed a nim als can change to their original fcarns. If you are telling the truth, you should be able to 
do so as well, yes?” 

Holo listened with the same irritated expression. At length she sighed softly and slowly extracted herself from the pile of furs. 

“I have suffered many times at the hand of the Church. I’ll not be given over to them Yet — ” 

She sighed again, stroking her tail as she continued. “No animal can change its form without a token. Even you humans need 
makeup before you can change your appearance. Likewise, I require food.” 

“What kind of food?” 

“Only a bit of wheat.” 

That seemed more or less reasonable for a god of the harvest, Lawrence had to admit, but her next statement brought him up short. 
‘That, or fresh blood.” 

“Fresh... blood?” 

“Only a bit, though.” 

Her casual tone made Lawrence feel that she couldn’t be lying; his breath caught, and he glanced at her mouth. Just a moment ago, 
he’d seen the fengs behind those lips bite into the meat he’d dropped. 

“What, are you afraid?” said Holo at Lawrence’s trepidation as she smiled ruefully. Lawrence would’ve said “Of course not,” but 
Holo was clearly anticipating his reaction. 

But soon the s mile disappeared from her face, and she looked away from him . “If you are, then I’m even more disinclined to.” 
“Why, then?” 

Lawrence asked, putting more strength into his voice, feeling that he was being made sport of 




“Because you will surely quake with fear. AD, be they human or animal, look on my form and give way with awe, and treat me as 
special. I have tired of this treatment.” 

“Are you saying I would be afraid of your true form?” 

“If you would pretend to be strong, you might first hide your trembling hand!” Holo said, exasperated. 

Lawrence looked down at his hands, but by the time he realized his mis take it was too late. 

“Heh. You’re an honest sort,” said an amused Holo, but before Lawrence could offer an excuse, her expression darkened again 
and she continued, quick as an arrow. “However, just because you are honest does not mean I should show you my form. Was what you 
said before the truth?” 

“Before?” 

“That if I am truly a wolf, you would not give me over to the Church.” 

“Mm...” 

Lawrence had heard that there were some demons capable of Dlusions, so tins was not a decision he could make lightly. Holo 
seemed to anticipate this and spoke again. 

“WeD, I have a good eye for both men and beasts. You are a man who keeps his word, I can teD.” 

Lawrence was still unable to find Iris tongue at the mischievous Hob’s words. He certainly could go back on his word. He was 
understanding more and more that she was toying with him , but there was nothing he could do about it. 

“I’D show you a bit, then. A fiiD transformation is difficult. You’D forgive me if I only do my arm,” said Holo, reaching down into the 
comer of the wagon bed. 

For a moment Lawrence thought that it was some sort of special pose she had to assume, but he soon reaDzed what she was doing. 
She was picking a grain of wheat from the sheaf in the comer of the wagon. 

“What are you doing with that?” asked Lawrence without t hin kin g . 

Before he could even finish the question, Holo popped the grain of wheat in her mouth and, closing her eyes, swaDowed it Dke a 
pDL 

The sheD of the unhusked kernel was not edible. Lawrence frowned at the thought of the bitter taste in Iris mouth, but that thought 
soon vanished at the sight that came next. 

“Uh, uughh. . .” Holo groaned, clutching her left arm and faDing onto the pfle of furs. 

Lawrence was about to say something — this could not be an act — when a strange sound reached his ears. 

Sh-sh-sh-sh. It was like the sound of mice run ning through the forest. It continued for a few moments, then ended with a m u ffled 
thud, Dke something treading on soft ground. 

Lawrence was so surprised he could do nothing. 

The next moment, Holo’s fonnerly sDm arm had transformed into the forepaw of some huge beast and was totaDy unsuited to the 
rest of her body. 

“Mm.. whew. It reaDy doesn’t look very good.” 

The limb appeared to be so large that she would have trouble supporting it. She rested the giant leg on the pfie of tin s and shifted 
herself to accommodate it. 

“WeD? Do you befieve me now?” She looked up at Lawrence. 

“Uh. .. er...” Lawrence was unable to reply, rubbing his eyes and shaking his head as he looked and looked again at the sight 
before him . 

The leg was ma gnific ent and coated in dark brown fur. Given the size of the leg, the fifil animal would be huge, roughly as big as a 
horse. The paw ended in huge, scythe-Dke claws. 

And aDthat grew from the girl’s slender shoulder. It would be strange to t hin k it wasn’t an Dlusion. 

Unable to befieve it, Lawrence finaDy took a skin of water and doused his lace with it. 

“Aren’t you the doubtful one. If you still think it’s an Dlusion, go ahead and touch it,” teased Hob, smDing, curling the giant paw in a 
come-hither motion. 

Lawrence found himself irritated, yet stDlhe hesitated. Besides the sheer size of the limb, it also gave off a certain ineffable sense of 

danger. 

It was the leg of a wolf I’ve dealt with goods caDed Dragon Legs, Lawrence told himself irritated at Iris cowardice. And just 
before his hand could touch it. . . 

“Oh — ” said Hob, seeming to remember something. Lawrence snapped his hand back. 

“Wha — ! What is it?” 

“Mm, oh, nothing. Don’t be so surprised!” said Hob, now sounding annoyed. Adding embarrassment to his fear, Lawrence 
became angrier and angrier at what he felt was his faflure as a man. Getting hold of himself he reached out once again. 

“So, what happened?” 

“Mm,” said Hob meekly, looking up at Lawrence. “Be gentle, wDlyou?” 

Lawrence couldn’t help stopping his hand short at her suddenly endearing manner. 

He looked at her, and she looked back, grin ning . 

‘You’re rather charming, aren’t you?” she said. 

Lawrence said nothing as he made sure of what his hand was feeling. 

He was irritated at her half-teasing manner, but there was another reason he fafled to reply. 

It was of course because of what he was touching. 




The beast-leg that thrust from Holo’s shoulder had bone as thick and solid as a free’s limb, wrapped in sinew that would be the 
envy of any soldier, and covering that, a ma gnific ent coat of brown fiir, from the base of the shoulder all the way down to the paw. Each 
pad of the paw was the size of an uncut loaf of bread. Past the soft pink toes was something denser — the scythes of her claws. 

The leg was solid enough, but those claws were anything but illusory. In addition to the not warm, yet not cold sensation peculiar to 
a nim al claws, Lawrence felt a thrill at the sensation that these were not something that he should be touc hing . 

He swallowed. “Are you really a god...?” he murmured. 

“I’m no god. As you can tell from my forepaw, I am merely bigger than my comrades — bigger and cleverer. I am Holo the 
Wisewolf!” 

The girl who so confidently called herself “wise” looked at Lawrence proudly. 

She was every bit a mischievous young girl — but the aura that the beast- limb exuded was not something a mere a nim al could ever 

manage. 

It had nothing to do with the size of the thing. 

“So, what think you?” 

Lawrence nodded vaguely at her question. “But... the real Holo should be in Yarei now. The wolf resides in the one who cuts the 
last wheat stalk, they say. . . 

“Heh-heh-heh. I am Holo the Wisewolf! I know well my own limitations. It is true that I live within the wheat. Without it, I cannot 
live. And it is also true that during this harvest I was wit hin the last wheat to be harvested, and usually I cannot escape from there. Not while 
any were watching. However, there is an exception.” 

Lawrence listened to her explanation, impressed with her rapid delivery. 

“If there is nearby a larger sheaf of wheat than the last one to be harvested, I can move unseen to that wheat. That’s why they say 
it, you know, the villagers. ‘If you cut too greedily, you won’t catch the harvest god, and it will escape. ’” 

Lawrence glanced at his wagon bed with a sudden realization. 

There was the sheaf of wheat — the wheat he’d received from the mountain village. 

“So that is how it was done. I suppose one could call you my savior. If you hadn’t been there, I would never have escaped.” 
Although Lawrence could not quite bring himself to believe those words, they were lent persuasion when Holo swallowed a few 
more wheat grains and returned her arm to normal 

However, Holo had said “savior” with a certain distaste, so Lawrence decided to get even with her. 

“Perhaps I should take that wheat back to the village, then. They’ll be in a bad way without their harvest god. I’ve been friends with 
Yarei and others in Pasloe for a long time. I’d hate to see them suffer.” 

He concocted the pretense on the spot, but the more he thought about it, the truer it seemed. If this Holo was the real Holo, then 
wouldn’t the village begin suffering poor harvests? 

After a few moments his ru min ations ended. 

Holo was looking at him as if stricken. 

‘You... you’re jesting, surely,” she said. 

Her suddenly frail mien rocked the defenseless merchant. 

“Hard to say,” Lawrence said vaguely, trying to conceal his internal co nflic t and buy some time. 

Even as his head filled with other concerns, his heart grew only more uneasy. 

Lawrence agonized. If Holo was what she claimed to be, the god of the harvest, his best course of action would be to return her to 
the village. He had long associated with Pasloe. He did not wish them ilL 

However, when he looked back at Holo, her earlier bravado was entirely gone — now she looked down, as apprehensive as any 
princess in an old knight tale. 

Lawrence grimaced and put the question to him self: Should I return this girl to the village, even though she clearly does not want to 

go? 

What if she is the real Holo? 

He mulled the matter over in a cold sweat, the two questions battling in his min d. 

Presently he became aware of someone looking at him He followed the look to its source and saw Holo gazing at him 
beseechingly. 

“Please, help me... wont you?” 

Unable to stand the sight of Holo so meekly bowing her head, Lawrence turned away. All he saw, day in and day out, was the 
backside of a horse. 

The life left him completely unable to resist a girl like Holo looking at him with such a lace. 

Ago nizingly , he came to a decision. 

He turned slowly back toward Holo and asked her a single question. 

“I must ask you one thing.” 

“...all right.” 

“If you leave the village, will they still be able to raise wheat?” 

He didn’t expect Holo to answer in a way that would weaken her own position, but he was a merchant. He had dealt with any 
number of dishonest negotiators in his time. He had confidence that if Holo attempted to lie, he would know. 

Lawrence readied him self to catch the prevarication he was sure would come, but come it didn’t. 

When he looked at her, she wore an expression completely different from what he had seen so far; she looked angry and near tears 




as she stared into the comer of the wagon bed. 

“Er . . . what’s wrong?” Lawrence had to ask. 

“The village’s abundant harvests will continue without me,” she spat, her voice surprisingly irate. 

“Is that so?” asked Lawrence, overwhelmed by the piercing anger that emanated from Holo. 

Holo nodded, squaring her shoulders. She gripped the furs tightly, her hands white from the effort. 

“Long did I stay in that village; as many years as I have hairs on my tail. Eventually I wished to leave, but for the sake of the 
village’s wheat I stayed. 

Long ago, you see, I made a promise with a youth of the village, that I would ensure the village’s harvest. And so I kept my 
promise.” 

Perhaps because she couldn’t stomach it, she did not so much as look at Lawrence as she spoke. 

Earlier her wit and words had been quick and easy; now she stumbled uncertainly. 

“I... I am the wolf that lives in the wheat. My knowledge of wheat, of things that grow in the ground, is second to none. That is why 
I made the village’s fields so magnificent, as I promised. But to do that, occasionally the harvest must be poor. Lorcing the land to produce 
requires compensation. But whenever the harvest was poor, the villagers attributed it to my caprices, and it has only gotten worse in recent 
years. I have been wanting to leave. I can stand it no longer. I long ago fulfilled my promise.” 

Lawrence understood Hob’s anger. Some years ago, Pasloe had come under the care of Count Ehrendott, and since then new 
farming techniques had been imported from the south, increasing yield. 

Holo thus felt that her presence was no longer necessary. Indeed, the rumor was proliferating that not even the god of the Church 
existed. It was not impossible that a countryside hamlet’s harvest god had gotten wrapped up in such talk. 

“The village’s good harvests will continue. There will be a poor yield every few years, but that will be their own doing. And they’ll 
overcome it on their own. The land doesn’t need me, and the people certainly don’t need me either.” 

Getting her words out all in one breath, Holo sighed deeply and fell over on the pile of fiirs yet again. She curled up, pulling the furs 
around her and burying her face in them. 

He could not see her face to make certain, but it seemed not impossible that she was crying. Lawrence scratched his head, unsure 
of what to say. 

He looked helplessly at her slender shoulders and wolf ears. 

Perhaps this was how a real god acted: now full of bluster and bravado, now wielding a sharp wit, now showing a childish temper. 

Lawrence was at a loss at how to treat the girl now. Nevertheless, he couldn’t very well remain silent, so he took a new approach. 

“In any case, setting aside the question of whether or not that’s all true. . . 

“You think me a liar?” snapped Holo at his preamble. He faltered, but Holo seemed to realize that she herself was being too 
emotional She stopped, abashed, and muttered a quick “Sorry,” before burying her head in the furs again. 

“I understand your resentment. But where do you plan to go, having left the village?” 

She did not answer immediately, but Lawrence saw her ears prick at his question, so he waited patiently. She had just delivered a 
si gnific ant confession, and Lawrence expected that she simply couldn’t lace anyone for a moment. 

At length, Holo guiltily looked into the comer of the wagon bed, co nfirming Lawrence’s suspicions. 

“I wish to return north,” she said flatly. 

“North?” 

Holo nodded, turning her gaze up and off into the distance. Lawrence didn’t have to follow it to know where she was looking: true 

north. 

“My birthplace. The forest of Yoitsu. So many years have passed that I can no longer count them. ..I wish to return home.” 

The word birthplace left Lawrence momentarily shocked, and he looked at Hob’s profile. He himself had not visited Iris hometown 
once since embarking on the life of a wandering merchant. 

It was a poor and cramped place of which he had few good memories, but after long days in the driver’s seat, sometimes loneliness 
overcame him and he couldn’t help t hin kin g fondly of the place. 

If Hob was telling the truth, not only had she left her home hundreds of years ago, but she’d endured neglect and ridicule at the 
place in which she’d settled. . . 

He could guess at her loneliness. 

“But I’d like to travel a bit. I’ve come all the way to this distant place, after all. And surely much has changed over the months and 
years, so it would be good to broaden my perspective,” said Hob, looking at Lawrence, her lace a picture of catai “So long as you’ll not 
take me back to Pasloe or turn me in to the Church, I’d like to travel with you. You’re a wandering merchant, are you not?” 

She regarded Lawrence with a friendly smile that suggested she’d seen right through him and knew he would not betray her. She 
sounded like an old friend asking a simple favor. 

Lawrence had yet to deter min e whether or not he believed Hob’s story, but as far as he could tell, she was not a bad sort. And 
he’d begun to enjoy conversing with this strange girL 

But he wasn’t so won over by her charm as to forget Iris merchant’s instincts. A good merchant had the audacity to lace a god and 
the caution to doubt a close relative. 

Lawrence thought it over, then spoke quietly. 

“I cannot make this decision quickly.” 

He expected complaint but had underestimated Hob. She nodded in comprehension. “It is good to be cautious. But I never 
misread a person. I don’t believe you’re so cold as to turn someone away.” 




Holo spoke with a mischievous s mile playing across her lips. She then turned and hopped back into the pile of Hits, albeit without 
the sulkiness she’d shown before. It seemed as though she was saying, “Enough talk for today.” 

As she’d derailed of the conversation yet again, Lawrence could only grin in spite of himself as he watched Holo. 

He thought he could see her ears moving, then her head popped out and she looked at him 

“Surely you’ll not tell me to sleep outside,” she said, obviously aware that he could do no such thing. Lawrence shrugged; Holo 
giggled and returned to the fur pile. 

Seeing her like this, Lawrence wondered if her actions earlier were something of an act, as if she were trying to play the part of the 
imprisoned princess. 

Nevertheless, he doubted that her dissatisfaction with the village or her desire to return home were lies. 

And if those weren’t lies, then he must believe that she was the real Holo, because a mere demon-possessed girl would not be able 
to make it all up. Lawrence sighed as he realized that more thought would not yield any new answers; he decided to go to sleep and leave 
further ru min ations for the morrow. 

The furs that Holo slept in belonged to Lawrence. It was ludicrous to think that their owner would forgo their comfort and sleep on 
the wagon’s driving bench. Telling her to move over to one side, he, too, snuggled into the for pile. 

From be hin d him. he heard the quiet sounds of Holo’s breathing. Although he’d told her he couldn’t make a quick decision, 
Lawrence had already decided that as long as Holo had not made off with his goods in the morning, he would travel with her. 

He doubted that she was that sort of troublemaker — but if she was, he thought, she would surely make off with his entire load. 

He looked forward to the next day. 

After all, it had been a long time since he’d slept beside another. It was impossible to be unhappy with her slightly sweet scent 
piercing the strong smelling furs. 

The horse heaved a sigh, as if reading Lawrence’s simple thought. 

Perhaps horses really could understand humans and simply preferred not to speak. 

Lawrence grinned ruefully and closed his eyes. 

Lawrence rose early the next morning. He was like most merchants who awoke early in order to extract the most profit from the 
day. However, when he opened his eyes to the mor ning mist, Holo was already up, sitting next to him , and rummaging through something. 
For an instant Lawrence wondered if his estimation of her had been wrong, but if so, she was truly audacious. He raised his head and 
looked over his shoulder, and it appeared she had gone looking for clothes among his things and was just now tying her shoes. 

“Hey, now! Those are min e!” 

Even if it wasn’t actual theft, even a god shouldn’t be rummaging around through other people’s things. 

Holo turned around at Lawrence’s rebuke, but there was not so much as a trace of guilt on her face. 

“ Hm ? Oh, you are awake. What think you of this? Does it look good?” she asked, completely unconcerned as she spread her 
arms. Far from chastened, she seemed actually proud. Seeing her like this made the uncertain, overwrought Holo of yesterday seem like 
something out of a dream Indeed it seemed that the real Holo, the one he’d have to contend with from here on out, was this impudent, 
prancing thing. 

Incidentally, the clothes she now wore were Lawrence’s best, the one outfit he reserved for negotiations with rich traders and the 
like. The top was an indigo blue shirt underneath a three -quarters- length vest. The trousers were a rare combination of linen and leather, 
with a skirt that wrapped fully around her lower body, tied with a line sheepskin sash. The boots were a rare prize, made of tanned leather 
and triple-layered, good even in the snowy mountains. Over all this she wore a bearskin greatcoat. 




Merchants take pride in their practical, di gnifie d clothing. To buy these Lawrence had saved gradually beginning in his 
apprenticeship — it had taken him ten years. If he showed up to a negotiation wearing these with a nicely groomed beard, he would have 
most people at a disadvantage. 

And Holo now wore those garments. 

He couldn’t find it in him self to be angry with her, though. 

All the clothes were clearly too big for her, which made it all the more charming. 

“The greatcoat is black — my brown hair looks lovely against it, eh? These trousers, though — they get in the way of my tail. Might I 
put a hole in them?” 

The trousers she spoke of so lightly had been made by a master craftsman only after si gnific ant effort on Lawrence’s part. A hole 
would likely prove impossible to repair. He shook his head resolutely. 

“Hrm. Well, fortunately they’re still large. I’ll find a way to make them work.” 

Holo seemed not to harbor the faintest concern that she would be asked to take the clothes off Lawrence didn’t think she was 
likely to run away while wearing them, but nevertheless he rose and regarded her. If she were to go a city and sell them, they would fetch a 
tidy amount of gold. 

“You’re a merchant through and through, that’s sure enough. I know just what you anticipate with that expression on your lace,” 
said Holo, smiling. 

She jumped lightly down from the wagon. 

Her movement was so unassuming and natural that he had no reaction. If she’d run just then, he would have been unable to pursue. 

Or perhaps he didn’t react because he didn’t believe she would run. 

“I’ll not run. If that had been my aim. I’d have gone long since.” 

Lawrence glanced at the wheat sheaf in the wagon bed, then looked back at the s miling Holo. She took the bearskin cloak off and 
tossed it back in the wagon; evidently the cloak, which had been made for Lawrence’s height, was too big lor her. She was even smaller 
than he’d realized yesterday, having seen her only in the dim moonlight. Lawrence was on the tall side, but even so she was fiftly two heads 
shorter than him . 

Then, as she verified the fit of the rest of the clothes, she spoke ofihandedly. “So, I wish to travel with you. May I?” 

She smiled but did not seem to flatter. If she’d tried to flatter him, Lawrence felt there might have been reason to refuse her, but she 
simply smiled happily. 

Lawrence sighed. 

She didn’t seem to be a thief, at least. He couldn’t let his guard down, but it wouldn’t hurt to let her come along. And sending her 
away would only make the constant loneliness harder to bear. 

“This must be some kind of late. Very well,” Lawrence said. 

Holo did not appear especially overjoyed — she merely smiled. 

‘You’ll have to earn your keep, though. The life of a merchant isn’t easy. I expect the god of abundant harvests to bring an 
abundant harvest to my coin purse.” 

“I’m not so shameless as to thoughtlessly freeload. I’m Holo the Wisewolf and I have my pride,” said Holo sullenly. Lawrence was 
not so blind as to t hin k she wasn’t making a show of childish indignation, though. 

Sure enough, Holo chuckled. “Though this proud wolf made a bit of a spectacle of herself yesterday,” she said self-deprecatingly, 
as if her flustered demeanor reflected her true feelings. “In any case, it is good to meet you. . .err. . .” 

“Lawrence. Kraft Lawrence. When I’m working I go by Lawrence.” 

“Mm. Lawrence. I shall sing your praises for all eternity,” said Holo with chest thrust forward, her wolf ears pricking up proudly. 
She seemed oddly serious. It was difficult to tell if she was being childish or cunning. She was like the ever-changing mountain weather. 

Apparently that ever-changing mood was part of her craftiness. Lawrence hastily revised his opinion and offered Iris hand from the 
wagon bed. It was the proof that he’d truly acknowledged her presence as a companion. 

Holo s mile d and took his hand. 

Her hand was small and warm 

“At any rate, it will soon rain. We should make haste.” 

“Wha...? You should have said so sooner!” exclaimed Lawrence — loudly enough to startle the horse. The previous night hadn’t 
brought so much as a hint of rain, but looking up at the sky he could indeed see clouds beginning to gather. Holo chuckled at him as he 
hurriedly made preparations to depart. She scampered on board the wagon, and it was obvious enough from the ease with which she 
rearranged the slept- in furs that she would be more handy than some fresh- laced apprentice child. 

“The river is in a foul temper. ’Twould be best to cross a short distance from here.” 

After Lawrence roused the horse, collected the bucket, and took the reins in hand, Holo joined him in the driver’s seat. 

It was too big for one person, but slightly too small for two. 

But to ward off the chill, too small was just right. 

With the neigh of a horse, the pair’s strange travels had begun. 




Chapter 2 



The rain was a true downpour. The threatening storm finally caught up with Lawrence and Holo, but fortunately they caught sight of 
a church through their rain-blurred vision and hurried into it. Unlike the monastery, the church survived on tithes from travelers and pilgrims 
who would stay the night and pray for a safe journey, so Lawrence and Holo were greeted warmly, without so much as a single fell glance. 

Nonetheless, a girl with wolf ears and a tail would hardly be allowed to walk into a church. Holo thus covered her head and lace in 
a hood, and they spun the lie that she was Lawrence’s wife, whose face was badly burned. 

He knew Holo was snickering to herself beneath the veil, but she understood her relationship with the Church, so her performance 
was good enough. That she had suffered many times at the hands of the Church was surely no lie. 

Even if she weren’t a demon, but an a nim al incarnation, that was little distinction as for as the Church was concerned. To the 
Church, all spirits besides the god it worshipped were anathema, tools of evil 

But it was through the gates of that church that the two passed easily and rented a room, and when Lawrence returned to the room 
after attending to Iris soaked wagonload, he found Holo, naked to the waist and wringing out her hair. Water fell in great, undignified drops 
from her beautiful brown locks. The floor was already frill of holes, so a little bit of water wouldn’t hurt — Lawrence was more concerned 
with the problem of averting his eyes. 

“Ha-ha, the cool water soothes my bums, it does,” said Holo, indifferent to Lawrence. 

Pleased by their lie or otherwise, Holo smiled. Brushing aside the hair that stuck to her face, she swept it up and back in a grand 

motion. 

The boldness of the gesture was undeniably wolf like, and it was not hard to see that the wet hair, disarrayed as it was, resembled 
the stiff fur of a wolf 

“The furs will be all right, surely. They were good marten skins, and martens live in the mountains, mountains where my kind live as 

well” 

“Will they sell high?” 

“I hardly kn ow. I’m no fur merchant, am I?” 

Lawrence nodded at the entirely reasonable answer, then began to disrobe and dry his own clothes. 

“Oh, that’s right,” he said, remembering. “What shall we do with that wheat sheaf?” 

He finished wringing out his shirt and was about to do the same with Iris trousers when he remembered Hob’s presence; he looked 
to her and discovered that she was now quite naked and wringing her own clothes free of water. Feeling somehow vexed, he ventured to 
strip nude and do the same. 

“Mm, what do you mean, ‘what?’” 

“I mean, shall we thresh it, or shall we leave it as it is? Assuming the talk of you residing in the wheat is true, that is.” 

Lawrence was teasing Holo, but she only cracked a slight s mile . 

“As long as I five, the wheat will neither rot nor wither. But should it be burned, eaten, or ground into the soil, I will likely disappear. 
If it’s in the way, you could thresh it and keep it safe somewhere; that might be better.” 

“I see. I’ll thresh it and put the grains in a pouch, then. You should hold it, right?” 

“ ’Twould be a boon. Still better to hang it ’round my neck,” Holo said. 

Forgetting him self for a moment, Lawrence glanced at Holo’s neckline, but hastily looked away. 

“I’d hoped to sell some of it elsewhere, though. Could we set aside a bit for sale?” Lawrence asked after he’d calmed him self 
He heard a rustling, and turned to see that it was Hob’s tail waving wildly. The tail’s fur was very fine, and shed water readily. 
Lawrence frowned as his face was dampened by the flying drops, but Hob seemed not the least bit contrite. 

“Most of the crops grew well because of the region. They’ll soon wither — that’s the point. No use tak ing them elsewhere.” 

Hob looked thoughtfully at the clothes she’d finished wringing out, but as she had nothing else to change into, she put the wrinkled 
items back on. 

Since they weren’t cheap like what Lawrence wore, they shed water well Lawrence thought the situation rather unreasonable but 
said nothing and changed back into his own damp, wrinkled clothes, then nodded to Hob. 

“Let’s go dry ourselves in the great room With this rain, there should be plenty of other people gathering around the furnace.” 

“Mm, a good idea, that,” said Hob, covering her head with the thin cloak. Once covered, she giggled. 

“What’s so funny?” 

“Heh, I would never have thought to cover up my face because of burns.” 

“Oh? What would you have done? 

“The bums would become part of me, just like my ears or tail Proof of my uniqueness.” 

Lawrence was somewhat impressed with her statement. Nonetheless he wondered uncharitably if she’d feel the same way if she 
were actually injured. 

Hob interrupted his reverie. 

“I know what you are t hin kin g ,” she said. 




Underneath the cloak, she s mile d mischievously. The right comer of her mouth curled up in a smirk, showing a sharp fang. 

“Want to injure me and see for yourself?” 

Lawrence was not entirely disinclined to respond to her provocation, but he decided that if he actually reacted and drew his dagger, 
things could really get out of hand. 

It was possible that she meant it. More likely, though, it was just her mischief- loving nature. 

“I’m a man. I could never injure such a beautiful lace.” 

Hearing him say so, Holo smiled as if having received a long- anticipated gift and drew playfully near to him . A sweet scent swirled 
vaguely around him , rousing Lawrence’s body. Completely indifferent to his reaction, she sniffed him , then drew slightly back. 

“You may have been caught in the rain, but you still smell fouL A wolf can tell these things.” 

“Why, you — ■” 

Lawrence threw a half serious punch, but Holo moved adroitly aside and he hit only hair. She laughed, cocking her head and 
continuing. 

“Even a wolf knows to keep its coat clean. You’re a good man, aye, but you need to keep neat.” 

He didn’t know whether she was joking or not, but hearing it from a girl like Holo made it impossible to deny. For as long as he 
could remember, Lawrence maintained his appearance only insofar as it would help Iris professional negotiation, with no thought given to 
whether it would appeal to a woman. 

Had Iris negotiation partner been a woman, he might have taken the trouble, but unfortunately, he had not once met a female 
merchant. 

He didn’t know how to answer, so he simply turned around and fell silent. 

“The beard, though, is quite nice.” 

The medium-length beard that grew from Lawrence’s chin had always been well-received. Lawrence accepted the compliment 
gracefully, turning back to face her, somewhat proudly. 

“I daresay I’d prefer it a big longer, though.” 

Long beards were not popular among merchants. The thought automatically occurred to Lawrence, but Holo drew a line from her 
nose across her cheeks with her index fing er, continuing her jape. 

“. . .Like so, like a wolf” 

Lawrence was now finally aware that he had been made sport of He ignored her and walked toward the room’s door, even as he 
felt childish for doing so. Holo giggled and followed. Truthfully, he was not actually angry with her. 

“There will be many people around the furnace. Best not to let anything slip.” 

“I am Holo the Wisewolf! Long ago I traveled clear to Pasloe in human form Worry not!” 

The churches and inns far from the cities were important sources of information to a merchant. Churches in particular attracted all 
kinds of people. 

An inn might house poor travelers and grizzled merchants, but churches were different. One might find anyone from master brewers 
to wealthy nobles in a church. 

The church Lawrence and Holo had stopped in housed twelve guests. A few looked to be merchants; the others were of various 
professions. 

“Aha, so you’re here fromYorenz, then?” 

“Yes. I delivered salt from there to my customer and got marten furs in trade.” 

Most of the guests sat on the floor in the main hall, taking their meals or picking fleas from their clothing. One couple monopolized 
the bench in front of the furnace. Despite being a “great hall,” it was not particularly spacious, so no matter where one was in the crowded 
room, the generously stoked fireplace would dry one’s clothes. The couple’s clothes did not appear wet, so Lawrence imagined they were 
probably wealthy, and having made generous donations to the church could be here as they pleased. 

Lawrence was not wrong; he pricked up his ears to listen for a point in the couple’s conversation where he could enter and waited 
for his chance. 

The wife had gone silent, possibly because of the exhausting journey, and her middle-aged husband welcomed conversation. 

“Still, going all the way back to Yorenz, isn’t that rather arduous?” 

“That depends on how canny the merchant.” 

“Oh ho, interesting!” 

“When I bought the salt in Yorenz, I paid no money. Rather, I’d already sold a measure of wheat to a different branch of the same 
company in another city — but when I sold the wheat, I took no payment; neither did I pay for the salt. So I completed two separate deals 
with no money exchanged.” 

This system of barter had been invented by a mercantile nation in the south about a century earlier. When Lawrence’s master had 
explained it to him, he’d agonized over the concept for two weeks before finally understanding. The man in front of him had apparently 
never heard of it him self and appeared si mila rly unable to grasp it, hearing the explanation but once. 

“I see... what a strange contrivance,” he said, nodding. “I live in the city of Perenzzo, and my vineyard has never employed such a 
method when se lling our grapes. Will we be all right?” 

“This barter system was invented by merchants who needed a convenient way to deal with people from many different lands. As 
the owner of a vineyard, you’d need to be careful not to let vintners claim your grapes to be poor and buy them cheaply.” 

‘Yes. We have such arguments every year,” said the man with a smile — but to the accountants he employed, the red-laced 




arguments they had with sly vintners were no laughing matter. Most vineyard owners were noble, but almost none of them took a personal 
hand in the firming or sale of their product. Count Ehrendott, who managed the region surrounding Pasloe, was highly eccentric in this 
regard. 

“Lawrence, was it? Next time you’re in Perenzzo, do come by for a visit.” 

“I shall, thank you.” 

As was common among the nobility, the man did not give his own name, assuming his name would already be known. It was seen 
as plebeian to give one’s own name. 

Undoubtedly if Lawrence were to visit Perenzzo and ask after the master of the vineyard, it would be this man. Had this been 
Perenzzo, though, a man of Lawrence’s stature would find it practically impossible to simply arrange an audience with him. Churches were 
therefore the best place to establish such connections. 

“Well then, as my wife appears tired. I’ll take my leave of you.” 

“May God allow us to meet again,” said Lawrence. 

It was a standard phrase within the Church. The man rose from Iris chair and, along with his wife, gave a polite nod before leaving 

the half 

Lawrence, too, vacated the chair the man had requested that he brin g over from the comer of the room He then returned the chairs 
the couple had occupied to the comer. 

The only people who sat on chairs in the great hall were nobility, kn i gh ts, and the wealthy. Most people disliked all three. 

“Heh-heh, you’re not a man to be trifled with, master!” 

Once Lawrence had cleared the chairs and returned to Holo’s side in the middle of the hall, a man approached them Given his 
dress and affect, he, too, was a merchant. His bearded face looked young. He had probably not been working on his own very long. 

“I’m merely a traveling merchant like any other,” said Lawrence shortly. Beside him, Holo straightened. The hood over her head 
shifted slightly; only Lawrence would know that it was her ears pricking. 

‘Tar from it, master. I’d been wanting to speak with him for some time but couldn’t find the opportunity. Yet you slipped right in. 
T hin kin g that it’s traders like you that I’ll be going up against in the future, why, it’s hard not to despair.” 

The man grinned as he spoke, revealing a smile that lacked one front tooth, giving it a certain charm Perhaps he’d pulled the tooth 
on purpose to lend his foolish s mile persuasion. As a merchant, he’d know how to use his appearance to best effect. 

Lawrence realized he’d better not be careless. 

Nonetheless, he himself had shuck up conversations just like this one when he was starting out, so he held a spark of empathy for 
the man. 

“That’s nothing — when I was starting out, all the established merchants seemed like monsters to me. Half of them still do. But I’m 
still eating. You just have to keep at it.” 

“Heh-heh, it’s a relief to hear you say so, sir. Oh, by the way, I’mZheren — and you’ve probably figured it out, but I’m just starting 
out as a merchant. Begging your indulgence, sir!” 

“I’m Lawrence.” 

Lawrence remembered that when he himself had just started out, he’d also tried to strike up conversations like this one and gotten 
frustrated by the cold responses. Now on the receiving end of a solicitous young merchant’s conversation, he understood those cold 
responses. 

A young merchant just starting out had nothing to share and could only receive. 

“So, then... is this your companion?” 

It was unclear whether Zheren broached the subject because he truly had nothing to share or if he’d committed the common 
be gin ner’s mistake of trying to gain without offering anything in return. If this had been a conversation between veterans, they would already 
have traded information on two or three locations by this point. 

“My wife, Holo.” For a moment Lawrence hesitated, wondering if he should use a false name, but ultimately decided there was no 

need. 

Holo bowed slightly in greeting as her name was mentioned. 

“My, a wife and a merchant both?” 

“She is an eccentric and prefers the wagon to the village home.” 

“Still, covering your wife in a cloak this way, she must be very precious to you.” 

Lawrence had some grudging respect for the man’s charisma; perhaps he’d been the town rogue. For his part, Lawrence had been 
taught by his relatives that it was best not to say such things. 

“Heh-heh, but it is a man’s instinct to want to see hidden things. 

God has led us together here. Surely you can let me have a look at her.” 

What shamelessness! thought Lawrence in spite of the knowledge that Holo was not actually his wife. 

But before Lawrence could take the man to task, Holo spoke. 

“The traveler is happiest before the journey; the dogs bark fiercer than the dog itself and a woman most beautiful from behind. To 
show my face in public would dash many dreams, and thus ’tis something I cannot do,” she said, s miling softly underneath the veil 
Zheren could only grin, chastened. Even Lawrence was impressed with her liltin g eloquence. 

“Heh-heh... your wife is something else, master.” 

“It’s all I can do to avoid being quite henpecked.” 

Lawrence was more than half- serious. 




“Yes, well. . .it’s certainly providential that I’ve met the both of you. Can you spare a moment to hear my tale?” said Zheren. Silence 
descended as he flashed his grin that was one tooth short and moved closer to the pair. 

Unlike typical inns, churches only provided lodging — not food. However, the hearth could be used for cooking, provided one gave 
the proper donation. Lawrence did so and placed live potatoes into a pot to boil Naturally the firewood for cooking had to be purchased 
as well 

It would take time for the water to boil, so Lawrence threshed the wheat that housed Holo and found an unused leather pouch to 
keep it in. 

Remembering that she’d said she wanted to keep it around her neck, Lawrence took a leather strap and attended to the hearth. 
Altogether the potatoes, firewood, pouch, and strap came to a significant cost, so he mused over how much to charge her as he brought the 
potatoes back to the room 

Because his hands were full, Lawrence couldn’t knock on the door — but Holo’s sensitive wolf ears could identify his footfalls. 
When he entered the room, however, her back was turned to him as she sat on the bed, combing her tail fur. 

“ Hm ? Something smells good,” she said, raising her head. Evidently her nose was as sensitive as her ears. 

The potatoes were topped with goat cheese. Lawrence would never have indulged in such luxury had he been alone, but now that 
he was in a party of two, he decided to be generous. Holo’s happy reaction made it entirely worthwhile. 

Lawrence set the potatoes on the table beside the bed, and Holo immediately reached out to help herself Just before she could 
grab a potato, Lawrence tossed the pouch full of wheat to her. 

“Wha ... oh. The wheat.” 

“And here’s a strap, so you can work out a way to hang it around your neck.” 

“Mm. My thanks. But this takes precedence,” she said, tossing the wheat aside with surprising nonchalance, then licking her lips 
and reaching for a potato. Apparently eating was a priority for Holo. 

Once she had a potato in hand, she immediately broke it in half Her face fairly glowed with delight at the steam that rose from the 
food. With her tail wagging back and forth she looked undeniably canine, but Lawrence was sure that if he pointed it out she’d be irritated, 
so he said nothing. 

“So wolves find potatoes delicious, do they?” 

“Aye. It is not as though we wolves eat meat year-round. We eat tender buds from trees. We eat fish. And the crops that humans 
raise are better still than tree buds. Also, I rather like the human habit of putting meat and vegetables to a fire.” 

It is said that a cat’s tongue cannot stand hot food, but wolves did not appear to have this problem Holo held half of the potato in 
her hand and popped the entire piece into her mouth at once after blowing on it two or three times. Lawrence felt that she’d bitten off more 
than she could chew, and indeed she soon appeared to choke. Lawrence tossed her a water-skin, and with it Holo managed to get the 
potato down. 

“Whew. Rather surprising, that. Human throats are so narrow. It’s rather inconvenient.” 

“Wolves swallow t hing s whole, right?” 

“Mm. Well, we lack this, so we cannot chew at our leisure.” Holo pulled at the edge of her lips; presumably she was taking about 
her cheeks. 

“But I’ve choked on potatoes in the past, it’s true.” 

“Oh ho.” 

“I suppose potatoes and I are ill-fated.” 

Lawrence resisted telling her that it was her gluttony that boded ill, not potatoes. 

“Earlier,” he began instead, “you said something about being able to tell when someone is lying?” 

Upon hearing the question, Holo turned to face him mid-bite, but suddenly looked aside and moved her hand. 

Before Lawrence could ask what was wrong, her hand stopped, frozen in midair as if she’d grabbed something. 

“There are still fleas.” 

“It’s that nice fur of yours. I bet it’s a lovely bed for them” Transporting fur or woven goods often involved smoking the fleas out of 
them, depending on the season. Lawrence spoke from experience, but Holo seemed quite shocked, and thrust out her chest as she spoke 
proudly. 

“Well, it’s a credit to your eye for quality that you can tell as much, then!” she said haughtily. Lawrence decided to keep his 
thoughts to him self 

“So is it true that you can tell truth from lies?” 

‘Hm? Oh, more or less.” Wiping off the hand that had grabbed the flea, Holo turned her attention back to the potato. 

“So, how good at it are you?” 

“Well, I know that what you said about my tail just now was not meant as praise.” 

Lawrence, stunned, said nothing. Holo giggled happily. 

“It’s not perfect, though. You may believe me or not.. .as you wish,” said Holo impishly, licking cheese from her fing ers. 

She’d gotten the better of him again, but if he were to react, that would only give her another opportunity. Lawrence composed 
himself and tried again. 

“So let me ask you this — was the lad’s story true?” 

“The lad?” 

“The one who spoke to us by the furnace.” 




“Oh. Heh, lad,’ you say.” 

“Is something funny?” 

“From where I stand you’re both but lads.” 

If he tried a comeback she’d only toy with him more, so Lawrence stifled the reply that rose within him . 

“Heh. I daresay you’re a bit more grown than he, though. As for your lad, it seems to me he is lying.” 

Lawrence calmed himself; this confirmed his suspicions. During their conversation in the half the young merchant Zheren had 
spoken to Lawrence about an opportunity for profit. 

There was a certain silver coin in circulation that was due to be replaced by a coin with a higher concentration of silver. If the story 
was true, the old silver coins were of poorer quality titan their replacements, but their lace value would be the same. However, when being 
exchanged for other currencies, the new silver coins would be worth more titan the old. If one knew in advance which coin was due to be 
replaced, one could buy them up in bulk, then exchange them for the new coins, thus rea lizing what amounted to pure profit. Zheren 
claimed that he knew which coin among all those circulating in the world would be replaced, and would share the information in exchange 
for a piece of the profit. Since Zheren would certainly have made the same offer to other merchants, Lawrence could not simply swallow 
the story whole. 

Holo stared into space as if t hin kin g back on the conversation, then popped the piece of potato into her mouth and swallowed it. 

“I don’t know which part is a lie, though, nor do I understand the finer points of the conversation.” 

Lawrence nodded and considered. He had not actually expected that much from Holo. 

Assuming that the transaction itself wasn’t a lie, Zheren must be lying about the coins, somehow. 

“Well, currency speculation isn’t rare in and of itself StilL..” 

“You don’t understand why he’s lying .. . no?” 

Holo plucked a bud from the surface of her potato and ate the rest. Lawrence sighed. 

He had to admit that she’d long since gotten control of him. “When someone’s lying, what’s important is not the content of the lie, 
but the reasoning behind it,” she said. 

“How many years do you t hin k it took me to understand that?” 

“Oh? You may have called that Zheren person a lad, but you’re both the same to me,” said Holo proudly. 

In times like these, Lawrence wished Holo did not look so frustratingly human. To t hin k that the youthful Holo had long understood 
the principles that he had suffered so much to grasp was too much for him to take. 

“If I were not here, what would you do?” asked Holo. 

“First I’d work out whether it was true or not, then I’d pretend to believe his story.” 

“And why is that?” 

“If it’s hue, I can turn a profit just by going along with it. If it’s a lie, then someone somewhere is up to something — but I can still 
come out ahead if I keep my eyes and ears open.” 

“Mm. And given that I am here, and I’ve told you he’s lying, then. . .” 

“Hm?” 

Lawrence finally realized what had been eluding him . 

“Ah.” 

“Heh. See, there was nothing over which to agonize so. Either way you’ll be pretending to accept Iris proposal,” said Holo, 
grin ning . Lawrence had no retort. 

“I’ll be taking that last potato,” said Holo, snatching the potato from the table. 

For his part, Lawrence was too abashed to even split the potato he held in his hand. 

“I am Holo the Wisewolf! How many times longer do you t hin k I have lived than you?” 

Lawrence’s mood only worsened with her concern for his feelings. He took a vindictive bite out of his potato. 

He felt like an apprentice traveling with his teacher all over again. 

The next day was beautiful with clear autumn skies. The church awoke still earlier than the merchants, so by the time Lawrence 
rose, the mor ning routine was already finished. Lawrence anticipated this and was unsurprised, but when he went out to the well to wash his 
lace, he was shocked to see Holo walking out of the worship hall with the members of the Church. She had her head bowed and was 
wearing her cloak, but even so she stopped frequently to chat pleasantly with the churchgoers. 

The sight of the devout chatting with the god of the harvest whose existence they refused to acknowledge was amusing, though 
Lawrence lacked the nerve to find it so. 

Holo took her leave from the congregation and quietly approached a dumbfounded Lawrence. She clasped her small hands 
together in front of her chest and spoke. 

“Lord, grant my husband courage.” 

The well water was chilly due to the approaching winter; Lawrence poured it over his head anyway and pretended not to hear 
Holo’s laughter. 

“It’s gotten a bit more important, the Church has,” said Holo. 

Lawrence shook his head to clear it of water, just as Holo had done with her tail the previous day. “The Church has always been 
important.” 

“Hardly. It was not so when I came through here from the north. They’d always be going on about how the one god and Iris twelve 
angels created the world and how humanity was but borrowing it. Nature is not something created, though. Even then, I thought to myself, 




"When did these people learn to tell such jokes?’ ” 

This centuries-old harvest god was talking like a natural philosopher criticizing the Church, which made it all the more amusing. 
Lawrence dried off and dressed. He wouldn’t forget to leave a coin in the tithe-box that was prepared there. One was expected to leave 
money in the box if one used the well, and the people of the church would be checking. Anyone who failed to leave a donation would have 
unlucky t hing s said about him . The constantly traveling Lawrence needed all the luck he could get. 

Nonetheless, what he tossed in the box was a worn, blackened copper coin that could barely be counted as money. 

“I suppose this is a sign of the times, then... much has changed.” 

Presumably she referred to her homeland, given the desolate expression on her lace. 

“Have you yourself changed?” asked Lawrence. 

“...” Holo shook her head wordlessly. It was somehow a very childish gesture. 

“Then I’m sure your homeland hasn’t changed, either.” 

Despite his youth, Lawrence had endured much. He’d been to many nations, met many people, and gained a wide variety ol 
experiences, so he felt qualified to say as much. 

All traveling merchants — even those who had run away from their homes — couldn’t help holding their homeland dear, since when in 
a foreign land, one could only trust one’s countrymen. 

Holo nodded, her lace emerging slightly from underneath the cloak. 

“ ’Twould be a disgrace to the name Wisewolf to be comforted by you, though,” she said with a smile, turning and heading back 
toward their room. 

She gave him a sidelong glance that could’ve been interpreted as gratitude. 

As long as her attitude was that of a very sly, very old person, Lawrence could cope. 

It was her childish side that he found difficult. 

Lawrence was twenty- five. If he lived in a town he’d be married and taking Iris wife and children to church. His life was half over, 
and Holo’s childish demeanor penetrated his lonely heart. 

“Hey, what keeps you? Hurry!” shouted Holo, look ing over her shoulder at him 
It had been a mere two days since Lawrence met Holo, but it felt like much longer. 

Lawrence decided to accept Zheren’s offer. 

However, Zheren could not simply rely on Lawrence’s word and hand over the information; neither could Lawrence afford to pay 
up front. He would have to sell Iris furs first. Thus the two men decided to meet in the riverside city of Pazzio and sign a formal contract 
before a public witness. 

“Well then. I’ll be on my way When you arrive in Pazzio, find a tavern called Yorend; you’ll be able to contact me there.” 

‘Yorend, is it? Very well” 

Zheren s mile d his charming s mile again as he took his leave, hefting his burlap sack of dried fruit over his shoulder as he walked on. 
Besides actual trading, the most important task that Heed a young merchant was exploring the many regions, becoming fa milia r with 
the locals and their goods, and making sure his lace was remembered. To accomplish this, it was best to carry something well-preserved 
that could be sold at churches or inns and used as an excuse for conversation, like dried fruit or meat. 

Lawrence watched Zheren, feeling a certain nostalgia for the time before he’d acquired his wagon. 

“Are we not going with him?” Holo asked as Zheren’s form disappeared into the distance. Having checked to see that there was no 
one around to see her, she was grooming her tail fur. 

Possibly because she had to cover her ears with the cloak, she did not bother combing her fell of chestnut hair, merely tying it back 
with a length of hempen rope. Lawrence felt that she could at least comb it, but he had no comb to offer. He resolved to acquire a comb 
and hat when they arrived in Pazzio. 

“It rained all day yesterday, so he’ll make better time on foot than we can on the wagon. There’s no need for him to slow down on 
our account.” 

‘True, merchants are always on about time.” 

‘Time is money.” 

“Ho-ho! An interesting saying. Time is money, is it?” 

“As long as we have time, we can make money.” 

“’Tis true. Though it’s not how I think,” said Holo, casting a glance to her tail 

Her ma gnific ent tail was long enough to hang past the back of her knees. Hie abundant fur would probably fetch a good price if 
shorn and sold. 

“I imagine the farmers you watched over for so many centuries were min dful of time.” 

As soon as Lawrence said it, he realized he probably shouldn’t have. Holo glanced at him as if to say “I’ll let you have that one,” 
s miling impishly. 

“Hmph. At what have you been looking? The farmers care nary a whit for time. It’s the air they’re min dful of” 

“I don’t follow you.” 

“They wake in the dawn air, work the ferm in the mor ning air, pull the weeds in the afternoon air, twist rope in the rainy air. They 
worry over their crops in the windy air, watch them grow in the summer air, celebrate the harvest in the autumn air, and in the winter air 
they wait for spring. They t hin k not of time — like me, they note only the air.” 

Lawrence couldn’t say that he understood all of what Holo said, but there were parts he followed. He nodded, impressed, which 




seemed to satisfy Holo; she puffed up her chest and sniffed proudly. 

The self-proclaimed Wisewolf evidently didn’t feel the slightest need for humility. 

Just then, a person who seemed to be another traveling merchant came across the road. 

Although Holo’s ears were hidden by the cloak, her tail was in plain view. 

The passerby stared at Holo’s tail, although he didn’t speak. 

In all likelihood he didn’t realize it was a tail. Lawrence imagined that if it were him, he’d wonder what kind of fur it was and how 
much it was worth. 

Still, when it came to keeping a straight lace, that was a separate matter entirely. 

“You’re quick enough, but you lack experience.” 

Apparently having finis hed her grooming, Holo tucked her tail back underneath her skirt and spoke. Hie lace underneath the cloak 
was that of a girl barely in her mid-teens, which showed occasional glimpses of someone much younger. 

Yet her words had the air of someone much older. 

“Still, one will grow wiser with age.” 

“How many hundreds of years do you t hin k it will take?” Lawrence headed off her attempt to tease him . 

Surprised, she laughed loudly. “Ah-ha-ha-ha! You are rather quick, aren’t you?” 

“Perhaps you’re just old and slow.” 

“Heh-heh. Do you know why we wolves attack people in the mountains?” 

Lawrence was unable to keep up with Holo’s sudden segue, so he could only answer with a contused, “Er, no.” 

“It is because we wish to eat human brains and gab their knowledge.” Holo grinned, baring her fangs. 

Even if she was jokbg, Lawrence shivered unconsciously, his breath catchbg. 

A few seconds passed; he realized he’d lost. 

“You’re still a pup. Hardly a match for me.” 

Holo sighed. Lawrence gripped the reins tightly and stifled a frustrated expression. 

“Still, have you ever been attacked by wolves b the mountains?” 

It was a strange feelbg bebg asked such a question by a girl with ears, fangs, and a tail He was having a conversation with a wolf 
— the same wolf whose presence bthe mountains he feared. 

“I have. Perhaps... eight times.” 

‘They’re quite difficult to handle, are they not?” 

“They are. Wild dogs I can handle, but wolves are a problem” 

“That’s because they want to eat lots of humans, to get their — ” 

“I’m sorry, all right? So stop.” 

The third time Lawrence had been set upon by wolves, he was part of a caravan. 

Two of the men b the caravan had been unable to clear the mountains. Their cries echoed b Lawrence’s ears even now. 

His face was expressionless. 

“Oh..” 

Apparently the perceptive Wisewolf had figured it out. 

“I am sorry,” said a contrite Holo, slumpbg, almost shrinkin g . 

Lawrence had been attacked by wolves many times. With the memories of the encounters swirlbg b his head, he was b no mood 
to answer. 

Splish, splosh , went the horse’s hooves b the muddy road. 

’’...Are you angry?” 

Such a crafty wolf — she must have known that if she asked like I had, he’d be unable to truthfully answer that he was angry. 

So he answered. “Yes, I’m angry.” 

Holo looked up at Lawrence b silence. When he looked back at her out of the comer of Iris eye, he saw her pouting — it was 
charmbg enough that he almost forgave her. 

“I am angry. No more jokes like that,” he finally turned to her and said. 

Holo nodded resolutely and looked ahead. She now seemed quite meek. 

After a period of silence she spoke agab. “Wolves live only b the mountains, but dogs have lived with humans. That’s why wolves 
make tougher opponents.” 

He probably should have ignored her, but dobg so would make later conversation difficult. He turned slightly b her direction and 
gave a sign that he was liste ning . 

“Hm?” 

“Wolves only know that they are hunted by humans, and that they are terrifybg creatures. So we are always thinkbg about what to 
do when they enter our forest.” 

Holo stared straight ahead as she spoke, as serious as Lawrence had ever seen her. 

He didn’t think she’d made that story up; he nodded, slowly. 

But there was somethbg b her vagueness that worried him . 

“Did you ever — ” 

But Holo stopped him before he could contbue. “There are some t hing s I simply cannot answer.” 

“Oh.” Lawrence chided him self for speakbg without t hin kin g ahead. “Sorry.” 




Holo then s mile d. “Now we’re even.” 

A twenty- five-year-old was not, it seemed, a match for a Wisewolf 

There was no fiirther conversation, but neither was there any bad air between the two. The horse plodded along, and soon the day 
had passed and night fell 

A merchant never continued his travels after dark when it had rained. If the wagon became stuck in the mud, seven times out often 
it meant that the goods would have to be abandoned. 

To turn a steady profit as a traveling merchant one had to minimize losses, and the road was Hill of dangers. 

Holo suddenly spoke, nestled in the fur pile beneath a sky she’d promised would be clear the next day. 

“The worlds we live in, you and I, are very different,” she said. 




Chapter 3 



The river Slaude meanders slowly across the plains. It is said to trace the path left behind by a giant snake that slithered from the 
mountains to the west through the plains to the eastern sea, and its wide, slow path is an essential transportation route for the region. 

Pazzio is a large port town situated near the midpoint of the river. Not far upstream lie large fields of wheat; still farther are thickly 
forested mountains. Logs are floated downstream year-round; barges carrying wheat or com, depending on the season, navigate up and 
down the river. 

That alone would be enough to ensure the town’s prosperity, but because there are no bridges across the Slaude, its ferries make it 
a natural gathering place. 

It was past afternoon but not yet dusk; Lawrence and Holo arrived during the busiest time of the day. 

Pazzio ’s trade had grown since the town recovered its autonomy from the monarchy — now merchants and aristocrats ruled it. 
Consequently, there were heavy tariffs levied on goods entering the town, but there were no immigration checks or demands for 
identification. Had it been a castle town, the opposite would be true, and Holo’s nonhuman status would be a problem 
“Have they no king here?” was Holo’s first utterance upon arriving in the city. 

“Is this your first time co ming to a city of this size?” 

‘Times surely change. In my day, a city this large would have been ruled by a king.” 

Lawrence felt a slight sense of superiority — he’d been to cities many times the size of Pazzio. He tried not to let it show lest Holo 
point it out. And in any case, he’d been just as naive when he first started out. 

“Heh. I’ll just say that your intentions are admirable,” quipped Holo. 

Apparently Lawrence had been a bit careless about hiding his thoughts. 

Although Holo’s attention was focused on the many shops that lined the road, she’d still noticed Iris expression. Had it just been a 
lucky guess? The idea that she could discern his thoughts so easily was unsettling and lar from fumy. 

“This isn’t... a festival, is it?” 

“If it were a Church celebration day, the streets would be so crowded we couldn’t pass through them Today, though, there’s still 

space.” 

“Ho. Difficult to imagine that,” said Holo with a smile, leaning out of the cart and scanning the merchant stalls they passed. 

She looked every bit the country bumpkin on her first visit to the town, but Lawrence suddenly thought of something else. 

“Hey.” 

“Mm?” was her only reply as she continued to stare at the many vendors. 

“Will it be all right, not covering your head?” 

“Huh? Head?” 

“I know it’s festival time in Pasloe right now, so most of the villagers will be drinkin g and celebrating — but not all of them, and some 
of the ones who don’t may be visiting Pazzio right now.” 

“Oh, that,” said 

Holo, sitting back down in the wagon, suddenly irritated. She looked back at Lawrence, her cloak just barely covering her ears. 
“Even if they could see my ears, nobody would notice. They’ve all long forgotten about me.” 

There was such vehemence in her voice it was a miracle she didn’t shout. Lawrence reflexively raised his hands as if calming a 
startled horse. Holo was no horse, but it seemed to have some effect. 

She snorted derisively and pulled the cloak down, lacing ahead and pouting. 

“You lived there for hundreds of years — surely there are some legends passed down about you. Or did you never take human 

form?” 

“There are legends. And sometimes I’d appear as a human.” 

“So there are stories about you appearing as a human?” 

Holo gave Lawrence a belabored sidelong glance, sighed, then spoke. “As lar as I remember, it went something like this. She looks 
like a beautiful girl of about fifteen. She has long, flowing brown hair and wolf ears, along with a white-tipped tail Sometimes she would 
appear in this form, and in exchange for keeping her appearance a secret, she promises a good harvest.” 

Holo regarded Lawrence flatly with a look that said, “Happy?” 

“Well, it sounds like you pretty much told them everything about yourself Is that really okay?” 

“Even if they were to see my ears or tail, they would doubt — just as you did. They’ll never realize the truth.” 

Holo slipped her hand underneath the cloak and fussed with her ears, perhaps because they pushed against the inside of the fabric 
uncomfortably. 

Lawrence looked sideways at her. He wanted her to be more careful, but if he said as much she would surely get genuinely angry. 

It seemed that discussion of Pasloe was taboo. He felt better when he considered that the legends of Holo made no mention of her 
actual facial features, only identifying her by her ears and tail As long as she kept those concealed, she would go unnoticed. Legends were 
just legends — it was not as if she were on a Church wanted poster. 




A few moments after Lawrence resolved not to press the matter, Holo appeared to be considering something. At length, she 

spoke. 

“Hey...” 

“Mm?” 

“Even... even should they see me, they won’t know who I am.. will they?” 

Her mood had changed completely from before; it was almost as if she wanted to be discovered. 

But Lawrence was no fooL He stared expressionlessly forward at the horse. “It is certainly my hope that they won’t,” he answered. 
Holo s mile d slightly, almost ruefully. “You needn’t worry.” 

Once Holo started looking happily at the stalls again, Lawrence realized she’d been speaking to herself as well as him . 

There was no need to press the matter, however — Holo was quite stubborn. 

Lawrence couldn’t help s miling at Holo now. She’d cheered up completely and was excitedly looking at the delicious fruits they 

passed. 

“There’s quite a collection of fruit! Are they all picked nearby?” 

“It’s because Pazzio is the gateway to the south. When the season’s right, you can even see fruit from regions nearly impossible to 

visit.” 

“There is much fruit in the south, and good.” 

“Surely you have fruit in the north as welL” 

“Aye, but it’s tough and bitter. To make it sweet it must be dried and cured. We wolves can’t do such work, so we have to take it 
from the villages.” 

Lawrence would’ve expected birds, horses, or sheep to be more likely targets lor wolves. It was hard to imagine them driven by a 
desire for something sweet. Perhaps a bear — bears often took the leather bags filled with grapes that hung from the eaves of houses. 

“I would think wolves would prefer spicy things. It’s bears that crave sweets.” 

“We don’t like spicy food. Once we found red fang- shaped fruit among the cargo of a shipwreck. We ate it and regretted it loud 
and long!” 

“Ah, hot peppers. Expensive, those.” 

“We dunked our heads in the river and decided humans were terrifying indeed,” said Holo with a chuckle, enjoying the memory for 
a moment as she gazed at the stalls. After a time, her smile 1 added, then finally reappeared as she sighed. The pleasure of nostalgia is never 
without its companion, loneliness. 

Lawrence was trying to decide what he should say when Holo seemed to perk up. 

“If it’s red fruit we’re talking about, I’d rather have those,” she said, tugging on his clothing and pointing out a stall 
Beyond the stream of passing people and wagons, there was a stall with a generous pile of apples. 

“Oh, those are fine apples.” 

“Are they not?” Hob’s eyes glittered beneath the cloak. He wondered if she noticed that her tail was swishing back and forth 
underneath her skirts. 

Perhaps she really did like apples. “They look rather toothsome, no?” 

“Indeed.” 

What Holo was hinting at was clear enough, but Lawrence pretended not to notice. 

“Now that I think of it, I had a friend who invested more than half Iris worth in apples. I’m not sure where they were from, but if 
they turned out like these, he’s surely doubled his money.” Lawrence sighed regretfully. “I should’ve done the same.” 

Holo’s expression shifted as if to say “that’s not the point I was trying to make,” but again Lawrence pretended not to notice. 
“Hmph. Well. . .that’s most unfortunate,” Hob replied. 

“But the risk was very high. If it were me, I would’ve transported them by ship.” 

“A. ..ship, you say?” As they talked, they continued to move along the road with the clop-clopping of the horse’s hooves as 
accompaniment. Hob was becoming anxious. She clearly wanted the apples, but was just as clearly bath to say so, hence her agitated 
responses to Lawrence’s comments. 

‘You see, a group of merchants will sometimes pool their money to hire a ship. The amount of money they raise deter min es the 
amount and type of cargo, but unlike land transport, if there is an accident you may lose lives as well as money. Even a strong wind can put 
you in danger. However, there is profit to be had. I’ve twice traveled by sea this way, so. . .” 

“Mm... ah...” 

“What’s wrong? 

They passed the apple booth, and it began to recede behind them 

There is nothing more fun than knowing the heart of another. Lawrence s mile d his best merchant s mile . 

“Right, so about shipping...” 

“Mm... apples...” 

“Hm?” 

“I... I want... I want apples. ..” 

Lawrence thought she’d be stubborn until the end, but since she’d finally admitted her desire, he decided to go ahead and treat her. 
“Earn your own food, why don’t you.” Hob glared at Lawrence as she munched away on an apple; he made a show of shrugging 
helplessly. 

She’d been so charming when she finally gave in and admitted her desire that Lawrence had generously given her a silver trenni 




coin of considerable value. She’d returned with more apples than she could carry. She appeared not to know the meaning of the word 
restraint. 

By the time her lace and hands were sticky with juice, well into her fourth apple, she got around to complaining again. 

“You. . .munch.. . earlier, you. . .mmph.. .pretended like you didn’t ...chomp. . . notice!” 

“It’s amusing knowing what someone else is t hin kin g ,” said Lawrence to Holo as she ate the apple down to its core. 

T hin kin g he’d have one for himself Lawrence reached back to the pile of apples in the wagon bed, but Holo slapped Iris hand 
away even as she started on her fifth apple. 

“Mine!” 

“Hey, I paid for them” 

Holo’s cheeks were stuffed; she waited until she had finished swallowing to reply. 

“I’m Holo the Wisewolf! I can make this much money any time I want.” 

“Don’t let me stop you. I’d planned to use that money for lodging tonight.” 

‘"Mmph. ..grm ...But, I . .. munch...'’' 

“Answer once you’re done eating, please.” 

Holo nodded and didn’t speak again until her stomach contained no less than eight apples. 

Did she still intend to have dinner after all that? 

“...Whew.” 

“You certainly ate a lot.” 

“Apples are the devil’s fruit, full of tempting sweetness as they are.” 




Lawrence couldn’t help laughing at her overstatement. 

“Shouldn’t a Wisewolf be able to conquer temptation?” 

“While one may lose much because of avarice, nothing was ever accomplished by abstinence.” Hie sight of Holo licking her lingers 
clean of the sweet juice strengthened her argument. If it meant missing such pleasure as this, asceticism was the height of folly. 

All this was merely academic, of course. 

“So, what was that you were going to say earlier?” 

“ Hm ? Oil, yes. I’ve no money and no immediate means to earn money, so as you do business I’ll just put a few words in to help 
you bring in more profit. Agreed?” 

No merchant worth his salt simply answers “agreed” when so asked. It’s common sense to refrain from answering until making sure 
of the other party’s intentions. A verbal contract is still a contract and must be honored, come what may. 

Thus Lawrence didn’t answer right away. He didn’t understand what Holo was getting at. 

“You’ll soon be se lling the marten furs, yes?” As if guessing at the reason for his hesitation, Holo turned to the wagon bed behind 

them 

‘Today, hopefully. No later than tomorrow.” 

“Well, I’ll try to say something to brin g your profit up, if I can. 

Whatever the difference I make, I keep,” she said, licking her little finger clean as if it were nothing. 

Lawrence mulled it over. Holo seemed confident that she could sell the marten pelts higher than he could. Wisewolf or no, he had 
seven years of experience as a traveling merchant. He wasn’t such a weak dealer that a few words tossed in from the side would bring up 
his prices, and there was no guarantee the buyer would accept such prices. 

Yet his curiosity at exactly how she would attempt this farce overpowered Iris doubt that it would actually happen, so in the end he 
said, “Agreed.” 

“It’s done, then!” replied Holo, burping. 

“But this isn’t just limited to our pelts. You’re a merchant, too — there may be no chance for me to talk up our price.” 

“How modest of you.” 

“Wisdom is knowing thyself first.” 

The statement would’ve sounded better had she not said it while casting her gaze longingly back toward the remaining pile of 

apples. 

The pelts’ destination was the Milone Company, a brokerage house that acted as an intermediary for a variety of goods. The 
Milone Company was the third-largest house in the city; the two above it were local businesses that had their headquarters in Pazzio. The 
Milone Company was headquartered in a mercantile nation hr to the south and run by a powerful trader of noble lineage; the Pazzio 
location was a branch. 

Lawrence had chosen the Milone Company over the local brokerages because it would pay higher commodity prices in order to 
best its competitors and also because, having so many branches in different places, it could provide valuable information. 

His aim was to dig up infonnation akin to the story he’d heard from the young merchant Zheren. Who better to ask about currency 
exchange than traders who routinely crossed borders to do business? 

After securing lodgings for the two of them, Lawrence trimmed his beard and set out. 

The Milone Company was the fifth building from the docks and the second- largest shop in the area. It had a huge gate that laced 
the docks to accommodate wagon traffic, which made the shop seem even bigger at a glance. Commodities of all kinds were piled around 
the gates, as if to show off the company’s prosperity. It might have been theft peculiar way of competing with the local businesses, which 
could trade on theft longstanding local connections and didn’t need flashy displays to prove they were turning a profit. 

Lawrence stopped his wagon at the loading area, and presently an employee came out to meet them 

“Welcome to the Milone Trading Company!” 

The smart- looking man tasked with unloading had a neatly trimmed beard and haft. Nonnally a trading company’s unloading dock 
was a chaotic swirl of bandit- like men shouting this way and that — Milone was an exception. 

“I’ve sold wheat here before, but today I have furs to selL Will you take a look?” 

“Yes, yes, but of course! The man inside and to the left will be happy to see you.” 

Lawrence nodded and with a flick of the reins drove the wagon inside. Around the area were stacked all sorts of goods — wheat, 
straw, stones, timber, fruit, and more. The staff was quick and efficient, which is how the Milone Company was successful even in foreign 
countries, a fact that would impress any traveling merchant. 

Even Holo seemed impressed. 

“Ho there, sir, where are you headed?” 

The two were watching the busy loading and unloading in the shop but stopped at the sound of the voice. They looked in its 
direction and saw a large man with steam rising from his suntanned body. He didn’t seem like the man Lawrence had been directed to find, 
but he was certainly huge. 

“Is he a knight?” Holo said under her breath. 

“We’re here to sell furs. I was told to come to the left side of the shop.” Lawrence met the man’s eyes and s mile d. 

“Right, then. I’ll just take your horse. This way, if you please.” 

Lawrence did as he was told and angled his horse toward the man. The horse snorted. Apparently he sensed the man’s vitality. 

“Ho-ho, a good horse, sir! He looks stout of heart.” 




“He works without complaint; I’ll say that much,” said Lawrence. 

“A horse that complains — now that would be something to see!” 

“You’re not kidding.” 

The two men laughed, and the worker led Lawrence’s horse inside the unloading area, and after hitc hing him to a sturdy wooden 
fence, called out. 

The person that answered was a man who looked more fit to be carrying a quill and ink than hay bales. He seemed to be the buyer. 
“Kraft Lawrence, I presume? We thank you for your patronage.” 

Lawrence was used to being greeted politely, but he was impressed that the man knew his name before Lawrence had given it. 
He’d last visited the company during a winter three years ago, selling wheat. Perhaps the man that now greeted Lawrence in the entryway 
still remembered him . 

“I’m told you’ve come to sell fiirs today.” Hie buyer skipped over the usual pleasantries about the weather and jumped straight to 
the heart of the matter. Lawrence coughed slightly and shifted into his trader persona. 

“Indeed I have. These are the very ones, here in the back of the wagon, seventy total” He hopped down from the wagon and 
invited the buyer to view the furs. He was followed by Holo, who jumped down from the wagon a moment later. 

“Ho, these are good marten furs indeed. The year has been a good one for crops, so marten fur is scarce.” 

About half the marten fur that reached the marketplace came from farmers who hunted in their free time. When the harvest was 
plentiful they were too busy to hunt, and marten fur was scarcer. Lawrence decided to push his position. 

‘You only see furs this fine once every several years. They were drenched with rain on the way here, but look — they’ve lost none 
of their luster.” 

“’Tis a fine luster, to be sure, and with good lie. What of their size?” 

Lawrence pulled a largish pelt from the bed and offered it to the buyer, since it was generally prohibited for people other than the 
owner of the goods to touch them. 

“Oh, ho. They’re not lacking in size. You said you had seventy?” 

He didn’t ask to see all the pelts; he was not so unrefined. Here was the challenge of trade — there was no buyer that would not 
want to see each pelt, but likewise was there no seller that would want to show each. 

This was the intersection of vanity, propriety, and desire. 

“Well then... Sir Lorentz...ah, my apologies, Sir Lawrence, you’ve come to trade with us because you sold wheat here in the past?” 
The same name was pronounced differently in different nations. It was a mistake Lawrence himself made often enough, so he 
forgave it with a smile and produced a wooden abacus from his pocket, which the man looked at. Different regions and nations had 
different ways of writing numbers, and because nothing was harder than hying to puzzle through these differences, merchants hardly ever 
wrote figures down while negotiating. Moving the wooden beads of the abacus would make the numbers completely clear, although one still 
had to be min dful of exactly what currency was being counted. 

“I can offer.. .say, one hundred thirty-two silver trenni .” Lawrence pretended to think on the matter for a moment. “You don’t see 
furs like these often. I brought them to you because I’ve done business with you in the past, but...” 

“We certainly appreciate your business.” 

‘Tor my part I’d like to continue our association.” 

“As would we, I assure you. In light of friendly relations, then, what say you to one hundred forty?” 

It was a somewhat transparent exchange, but within the mutual deception was truth — which made the dealings more interesting. 

One hundred forty trenni was a good price. It wouldn’t be wise to push past that. 

But just when Lawrence was about to say “It’s done, then,” Holo — who’d been silent up until that point — tugged slightly on his 

sleeve. 

“Excuse me a moment,” said Lawrence to the buyer, then leaned down, putting his ear level with Holo’s hood. 

“I don’t quite kn ow — is that a good price?” 

“Quite good, yes,” said Lawrence simply, smiling to the company representative. 

“Well then, do we have an agreement?” It seemed the buyer was ready to conclude the deal Lawrence smiled and was about to 

reply. 

“Wait just a moment.” 

“Wha — ” said Lawrence, without t hin kin g . 

Before he could say anything further, she kept speaking — just like a canny merchant would. 

“One hundred forty trenni , you said, yes?” 

“Uh, er, yes. One hundred forty in silver trenni pieces,” answered the representative, a bit taken aback by the sudden question 
from t he up-to-now silent Holo. Women were rare in places of trade — not unheard of, but rare. 

For her part, Holo either didn’t know or didn’t care; she spoke as freely as she pleased. “Ah, perhaps you didn’t notice?” 

The buyer, quite taken aback, looked at Holo. He seemed not to understand what she was getting at; Lawrence didn’t know, 

either. 

“My apologies, but have I overlooked something?” Hie buyer, a merchant from a neighboring county, looked to be roughly the 
same age as Lawrence. He was a veteran of countless negotiations, who’d dealt with innumerable parties in his career. 

It was to his credit that despite his experience, he appeared to be sincerely apologizing to Holo. 

Of course it was far from surprising that he was taken aback. Holo had effectively asked him if he knew what he was looking at. 
“Mm. I can see you’re a fine merchant, so surely you pretended not to notice? I can see I won’t need to hold back with you.” Holo 




grinned underneath her cloak. Lawrence nervously hoped she wasn’t showing her fangs, but more than anything he wanted to know what 
she was doing. 

The buyer had been accurate and honest. If Holo was telling the truth, then Lawrence him self had also missed an important detail. 
Which was impossible. 

“My intention is anything but, I assure you. If you’ll kindly point out what you’re speaking of we will be happy to adjust the price 
appropriately...” 

Lawrence had never seen a buyer act so meekly. To be sure, he’d seen them pretend meekness, but this was no act. 

Holo’s words had a strange weight, and her delivery was perfect. 

“Master,” she said to Lawrence. “It’s not polite to make sport of people.” 

It was hard to tell whether she called him “master” to mock him or because it was appropriate to the situation, but in either case, if 
he bungled his response here, he knew he’d hear about it later. He frantically groped for a response. 

“Th-that was certainly not my aim But perhaps you should be the one to tell him .” 

Holo grinned a lopsided grin at Lawrence, flashing a fang. “Master, pass me a fur, if you please.” 

“Here.” 

It struck Lawrence as silly that he had to exert him self to maintain his dignity in the face of being called “master.” Holo was the only 
master here. 

“Thank you, master. Now, if you please, sir...” said Holo, turning to the buyer and showing him the fur. At a glance its lay, size, and 
luster did not seem to merit an increased price. Even if she were to talk up the lay as being especially fine, the buyer would unavoidably ask 
to examine the firr more closely, and would inevitably find flaws. The price was unlikely to drop, but the relationship between buyer and 
seller would suffer. 

“These are line furs, as you can see,” Holo said. 

“I quite agree,” replied the buyer. 

“You won’t see their like in many years. Or perhaps I should put it this way — you won’t smell their like in many years.” 

Holo’s words froze the air in an instant. Lawrence had no idea what she was talking about. 

“’Tis a scent, but to miss it you’d need to be blind!” Holo laughed. She was the only one. Lawrence and the buyer were too 
stunned to be amused. 

“Well, a smell is worth a thousand words. Would you care to sample the scent?” Holo handed the pelt to the buyer, who took it 
and looked uncertainly toward Lawrence. 

Lawrence nodded slowly, hiding his confusion. 

What was the point in smelling the pelts? He had never heard of such a thing in all his dealings. 

Neither had the buyer, surely, but he had no choice but to placate his vendors. He slowly brought the fur up to his nose and sniffed. 
At first, his face showed a mix ture of confusion and surprise. He s niffe d again, and only the surprise remained. 

“Oh? Smell something, do you?” Holo said. 

“Ah, er, yes. It smells like fruit, I’d say.” 

Lawrence looked at the fur in surprise. Fruit? 

“Fruit indeed. Just as fur is scarce this year because of the harvest, so did the forest overflow with fruit. This marten was 
scampering about in that same forest until just a few days ago, and it ate so much of that plentiful fruit that the scent suffused its body.” 

The buyer sniffed the fur again. He nodded, as if to say “true enough.” 

“The truth is that while the fur’s luster might be better or worse, it generally changes little. Does the problem not come, then, when 
the fur is made into clothing, when it is actually used? Good fur is durable; bad fur soon wears thin.” 

‘True, as you say,” said the buyer. 

Fawrence was astonished. How much did this wolf know? 

“As you can tell, this particular fur Iras the sweet scent of a marten that has eaten very well indeed. It took two strong men to pull 
the hide clear of the body, it was so tough.” 

The buyer tugged on the fur experimentally. 

He couldn’t pull too hard on goods he hadn’t yet purchased, though — something Holo knew full well 
She was a perfect merchant. 

“The fur is as strong as the beast itself was, and will keep the wearer as warm as a spring day, shedding rain from dawn ’til dusk. 
And don’t forget the scent! Imagine coming across a perfumed piece of clothing like this among coats made from nose- wrinkling marten 
fur. Why, ’twould sell so dear your eyes would pop out.” 

The buyer was indeed imagining the scenario, gazing off into the distance. When Lawrence thought about it, he could see that the 
goods would sell high — or perhaps, he could smell as much. 

“So, what do you think would be a lair price, then?” 

The buyer snapped out of his reverie and straightened himself then played with some figures on his abacus. The beads flew back 
and forth with a pleasant tak-tak-tak sound, finally displaying a figure. 

“What say you to two hundred trenniT ’ 

Lawrence’s breath caught in his throat. One hundred forty pieces was already a respectably high price. Two hundred was 
unimaginable. 

‘Mmm,” Holo murmured to herself He wanted to beg her to stop — this was going too far, but she was implacable. 

“How about three pieces for each fur — two hundred ten in total?” 




“Er, well..” 

“Master,” she said to Lawrence. “Perhaps we should try elsewhere — ” 

“Uh, no! Two hundred ten pieces, then!” said the buyer. 

Hearing this, Holo nodded, satisfied, and turned to her “master.” “You heard the man, master.” 

She was definitely teasing him . 

The tavern called Yorend was on a slightly removed alleyway, but it looked well-kept enough. Local craftsmen appeared to make 
up the bulk of its clientele. 

Lawrence found him self suddenly tired when they arrived at the Yorend tavern. 

Holo, on the other hand, was quite energetic, probably because she’d managed to outwit two merchants at once. The hour was yet 
early, so the tavern was mostly empty, and their wine was out very quickly — Holo drained hers in one huge draught, while Lawrence was 
content to nurse his. 

“Ah, wine!” said Holo, belching a fine belch. She lifted her wood cup and ordered another round, which the tavern girl 
acknowledged with a s mile . 

“What troubles you? Aren’t you going to drink?” said Holo, munching away on some fried beans. 

She didn’t seem to be particularly dizzy with success, though, so Lawrence decided to broach the subject directly. 

“Have you ever worked as a merchant?” 

Holo, still munching the snack and holding her refilled glass, smiled ruefully. “Oh, I’m sorry, have I injured your pride?” Naturally, 
she had. 

“I don’t know how many deals you’ve done in your life, but I watched countless transactions when I was in the village. Long ago, I 
once saw a man use that technique — I didn’t invent it myself When was that, anyway...?” 

Lawrence didn’t speak, but his eyes held the question: Is that true? Holo looked slightly troubled as she nodded, and Lawrence 
sighed even as he felt somewhat relieved. 

“I really hadn’t noticed, though. Last night when I slept in the furs, I didn’t smell any fruit.” 

“Oh, that. That was from the apples we bought.” 

Lawrence was speechless. When had she pulled that trick? 

And suddenly, he felt a chill of worry. 

It was fraud! 

“It’s his own fault for being tricked,” said Holo. “He’ll be impressed once he figures it out.” 

“. . .You may have a point.” 

“There’s no point in being angry when you’ve been tricked. A real merchant knows to be impressed.” 

“That’s quite a sermon. You sound like a wizened old trader.” 

“Heh. And you’re just a babe in arms, yourself” 

Lawrence had to laugh. He shrugged as he drank his wine. It had a keen taste to it. 

“All this aside, did you do as you were supposed to?” Holo was talking about the Zheren matter. 

“I asked around the Milone Company to see if anybody knew about nations that would be issuing new silver currency, but they 
didn’t seem to be hiding anything. As long the information isn’t something that needs to be monopolized, they’ll normally share it. Makes for 
good business relations.” 

“Hm.” 

“But chances for this kind of deal aren’t common. That’s why were involved.” 

It wasn’t vanity. It was reality. In currency speculation, prices either rose, fell, or held steady. Even if the details became complex, 
all one had to do was turn it over in one’s head until one hit upon the solution. 

Once the proposed deal was reduced to the party that would gain and the one that would lose, there were few decisions to make. 
However... 

“Still, whatever the trick, as long as we can avoid getting fleeced and come out ahead, we’ll be fine.” 

Lawrence drank some wine and popped some beans into Iris mouth — Holo was paying, so he decided he might as well take 
advantage of it. 

“I don’t see the owner anywhere. I wonder if he’s out,” he said. “Zheren did say we could contact him through the bar. He must be 
on good terms with the establishment.” 

“Well, traveling merchants usually base their operations out of either a tavern or a trading house. In fact, I’ve got to get to a trading 
house later oa And the owner really isn’t around, is he?” said Lawrence, scanning the tavern yet again. It was a fairly spacious 
establishment, with fifteen round tables; only two other people — craftsmen from the look of them — were in the tavern. 

He couldn’t very well just go talk to them, so he asked the girl when she brought them another round of wine along with some 
roasted herring and smoked mutton. 

“The owner?” said the girl as she set the wine and food on the table. Her arms were very slender; Lawrence wondered where she 
got the strength to handle the heavy food. “He’s gone to buy ingredients at the marketplace,” she continued. ‘Do you have some business 
with him?” 

“Could you possibly tell him we’re trying to get in touch with a man named Zheren?” 

If they didn’t know Zheren here, that was fine, too. Many merchants used taverns as convenient points of contact, so a 
misunderstanding was entirely possible. 




But it turned out to be unnecessary concern on Lawrence’s part. 

The girl’s eyes brightened immediately at the mention ofZheren. “Oh, Mr. Zheren? I know of him .” 

“Do you?” 

“He normally comes soon after sundown. Feel free to stay here until then.” 

She was a shrewd girl indeed, but she had a point. It was an hour or two until dusk, which would be just enough time to enjoy a 
nice leisurely drink. 

“We’ll take you up on that, then,” said Lawrence. 

“Do enjoy yourselves!” said the girl with a bow, then turned to attend to the tavern’s other two patrons. 

Lawrence drank from his cup of wine. Its tart scent wafted across his nose, fading to sweetness on his tongue. Some liquors, like 
rum, traded on their intensity, but Lawrence preferred the sweetness of wine or mead. Sometimes he’d have cider just for a change. 

Beer was good, too, but its flavor depended on the skill of the craftsman and the tastes of the person drinking it. I I nlik e wine, 
whose quality depended entirely on price, a beer’s deliciousness was unrelated to its cost, so merchants tended to avoid it. There was no 
way to know if the particular brew would suit your taste unless you were from the region or town — so when he wanted to appear local, 
Lawrence would order beer. 

Lawrence thought on this when he noticed that Holo, sitting opposite him, had stopped eating. She appeared to be deep in thought. 
Lawrence spoke up to get her attention, but she was slow in answering. 

“...That girl, she’s lying,” she finally said, once the girl had disappeared into the kitchen. 

“Lying how?” 

“Zheren doesn’t necessarily come in here every day.” 

“Hm.” Lawrence nodded, looking into his wine cup. 

“Well, I hope we’ll see Zheren soon, as she says.” 

The girl’s lie meant that she was already in touch with Z heren. If not, things would be complicated now for both Lawrence and the 
mysterious young merchant. 

“As do I,” said Holo. 

The reason for the lie was unclear, though. It could be that she was able to call Zheren anytime she wanted and simply wanted to 
keep Lawrence and Holo at the table and ordering wine for a little while longer. Merchants and traders told lies large and small all the time. 
Worrying over every single one would soon drive one to distraction. 

So Lawrence wasn’t particularly worried, and he ima gin ed Holo was the same. 

And other than Holo’s delight at the honeycomb- shaped honeyed stew, the sun set without incident, and soon customers began 
filtering into the tavern. 

Among them was Zheren. 

“I rejoice at our reunion!” said Zheren, raising Iris wine cup. It knocked against Lawrence’s with a pleasant klok. “How fared your 

furs?” 

“They fetched a good price — as you can tell from the wine.” 

“I envy you! I daresay you had an angle?” 

Lawrence didn’t reply immediately, instead taking a drink of wine. “That’s a secret.” 

Holo was busily devouring the beans, possibly to hide her smirk. 

“Well, in any case. I’m glad you were able to sell them for a good price. For my part, more capital means more profit.” 

“Just because I have more capital doesn’t mean I’ll be increasing my investment.” 

“Say it’s not so! I’ve prayed for your good fortune in anticipation ofjust that!” 

“Then you’ve been praying at the wrong place. You should’ve just prayed for me to up my investment.” 

Zheren gazed upward, his face a mask of exaggerated tragedy. “So, to business, then,” said Lawrence. 

“Ah, right.” Zheren composed himself and looked at Lawrence, but looked briefly to Holo as well, as though he knew she, too, 
was a figure not to be underestimated. 

“In exchange for selling me the information of which silver currency is due to become purer, you want a portion of the profit I’ll 
make. Does that sum it up?” 

“Indeed.” 

“Is this story of a purer corn true?” 

Zheren faltered slightly at the directness of the question. “Well, I’m predicting it based on information I got from a small mining 
town. I t hin k it’s trustworthy, but.. .there are no guarantees in business.” 

‘True enough.” 

Lawrence nodded, satisfied at seeing Zheren cringe. He brought some stew to his lips and continued. 

“If you’d told me it was a sure thing, I’d have had to walk away. Nothing is more suspicious than a guarantee.” 

Zheren sighed in relief 

“So, what would you want for a percentage?” 

‘Ten trenm for the information, plus ten percent of your profit.” 

“That’s a very conservative demand given the potential gab.” 

“It is. If you should take a loss, I won’t be able to compensate you. If I had to, all my assets would be forfeit. So I’ll take ten 
percent of whatever you make, but if you take a loss, I’ll refund you the information fee, and no more.” 




Lawrence mulled the issue over, his min d long since fuzzy from liquor. 

Zheren’s proposal boiled down to roughly two possibilities. 

The first was that he, Lawrence, would sustain a loss, and Zheren would use that for his own gain. 

The second was that Zheren’s proposal was basically sound. 

However, thanks to Holo, he knew that Zheren’s claim that the currency in question would rise in value owing to an increased silver 
content was a lie. If so, Zheren planned to profit from Lawrence’s loss, but Lawrence didn’t yet know how. 

Given this, Lawrence began to wonder if Hob’s estimation of Zheren was mistaken after all. It didn’t make sense that Zheren’s 
goal was the paltry information fee. 

But it wouldn’t matter how much time he spent t hin kin g about it. Only when he got the information from Zheren would he be able to 
get a fresh perspective. 

If it became obvious that he would sustain a loss, he could just get his information fee back. With a little bit of speculation he could 
dodge any problems, and now his interest in whatever Zheren was planning was greater than ever. 

“That sounds good enough to me.” 

“Oh, er, thank you very much!” 

“Just to confirm, you want ten trenni to provide me with the information, and ten percent of my earnings. However, if I lose money, 
you’ll return the fee to me, and you won’t be liable for further losses.” 

“Yes.” 

“And we’ll sign a contract to this effect before a public witness.” 

‘Yes. As for the settlement day, can we make it three days before the spring market? I expect the currency to change within the 

year.” 

The spring market was still half a year out. It was enough time for the currency to settle into its new value, be it up or down. If 
it actually rose, there would be an accompanying increase of confidence in the currency, and people would be happy to do business 
using it. Its market value would rise rapidly. Those who sold it impatiently would lose out. 

“That will do. It should be sufficient time.” 

“In that case, I look forward to seeing you at the public witness’s office early tomorrow morning.” 

There was no reason to refuse. Lawrence nodded, and raised his cup. ‘To profit for both of us!” 

At the sight of both men raising their cups, the listless Holo scrambled to get her cup in her hand. 

‘To profit!” 

There was a pleasant klok as the cups kn ocked against each other. 

The public witness, just as the name implies, is a public service for providing witnesses for contracts. However, just because a 
contract was signed before a public witness, the town guard would not necessarily catch someone who breached it. Even the monarchy, in 
charge of the public good as it was, would not do that. 

Instead, the offending party’s identity would be spread around by the public witness. This was fatal to a merchant. For larger deals, 
this was even truer — a merchant with a bad reputation wouldn’t even be able to deal with traders from foreign countries, at least not in that 
particular city. 

The consequences weren’t particularly effective for people who were going to retire from hading, but as long as they planned to 
continue as a merchant, the incentive was enough. 

It was before such a public witness that Lawrence signed the contract, paid Zheren the ten trenni, and received the information 
without incident. 

Lawrence and Holo then parted ways with Zheren and headed into the town marketplace. The empty wagon would only cause 
problems in the crowded town center, so they left it at the inn and went in on foot. 

“This is the silver the boy mentioned, yes?” Holo held a silver trenni. It was the most widely used currency in the region because 
among the hundreds of different kinds of ciurency in the world, it was one of the most trusted, and also simply because this town and the 
region around it were within the nation of Trenni. 

Nations that did not have their own currency were doomed to either collapse or become client nations of larger powers. 

“It’s a well-trusted coin in this region,” said Lawrence. 

‘Trusted?” Holo looked up at Lawrence as she played with the coin on which the profile of the eleventh ruler of Trenni was 
engraved. 

“There are hundreds of cuiTencies in the world, and the amount of gold or silver in each varies constantly Trust is an important part 
of currency.” 

“Huh. I only knew of a few different kinds of money. It used to be that business was done in a nim al skins.” 

Lawrence wondered exactly how many hundreds of years ago she was talking about. 

“So, how about it? Have you worked something out now that you know which coin he was talking about?” 

“Well, there are several possibilities.” 

‘Tor example?” asked Holo as they walked past the stalls in the marketplace. She stopped suddenly, and a big man who had the 
look of a worker about him bumped into her. He was just about to shout at her when Holo looked up from underneath her cloak and 
apologized. The man reddened and managed to say, “W-weU, be more careful” 

Lawrence silently resolved not to be swayed by this particular tactic of Holo’s. 

“What’s wrong?” he asked. 




“Mm. I want to eat one of those.” 

Holo was pointing at a bread stall. It was just before midday, so fresh-baked bread was lined up in neat rows. In front of a stall, a 
maid was buying more bread than she could possibly eat, probably for the midday meal of some craftsman and his apprentice. 

“You want some bread?” 

“Mm. That one, there, with the honey on it.” 

Holo indicated some long, thin loaves that were being showily displayed from the eaves of the stall The honey- drizzled bread was 
popular in most places. Lawrence seemed to remember that the tradition was started in a certain city where a baker had hung the loaves 
from the eaves of Iris shop as he drizzled them with honey as a way to attract customers. The tactic had been so successful that fights broke 
out among the people who wanted to buy the bread, and the baker’s union had made it official policy that all honey bread would be 
henceforth hung from the eaves. 

The bread did look delicious, but Lawrence couldn’t help grin ning at Holo’s sweet tooth showing itself yet again. 

“You have money,” he told her. “Go ahead and buy some if you want.” 

“I don’t imagine bread and apples are far apart in price. Will you carry the mountain of bread I’ll bring back with me? Or shall I 
rub the baker’s day by askbg him for so much change?” 

Lawrence finally understood. All Holo had were silver trenni coins — each of which was worth far more than it took to buy a loaf 
of bread. She’d bought more apples than she was able to carry with a si mila r cob. 

“All right, all right. I’ll give you a smaller cob. Here, hold out your hands. One of these black coins should get you one loaf” 

Lawrence took the silver cob from Holo’s hands and replaced it with several brown and black copper ones, pobtbg at the cob he 
wanted her to use. 

Holo scrutinized the currency carefully. “You’d best not be cheatbg me,” she said suspiciously. 

He thought about kickbg her, but Holo soon turned on her heel and headed for the bakers stalL 

“Always with the quick tongue,” retorted Lawrence, but b truth he couldn’t claim he wasn’t enjoybg him self 

When he saw Holo walkbg back, her bee the very picture of contentment as she sank her teeth bto the bread, he couldn’t help 
laughbg. 

“Don’t bump bto anybody else,” Lawrence said. “I don’t want to have to deal with a fight.” 

“Don’t treat me like a pup, then.” 

“It’s hard to see you as anythbg else when your mouth is covered b sticky honey.” 

66 ')') 



For a moment Lawrence thought she was sulkbg b anger, but a wolf was not so easily provoked. 

“ Am I charmbg, then?” She looked up at Lawrence with her head cocked slightly, whereupon he slapped her on the head. ‘You 
certainly can’t take a joke,” she grumbled. 

“I’m a very serious person,” said Lawrence. 

Her faintly flustered demeanor went unnoticed. 

“So, what was it you were thinkbg about?” 

“Oh, right, right.” It was better to bring up the previous topic of conversation than stay b this uncomfortable territory. “So, back to 
the trenni cob. Zheren may well be telling the truth.” 

“Oh?” 

“There are reasons to raise the silver content. So. ..here, take this coin, a silver firin. It’s from a nation three rivers south of here. 
It’s got a respectable silver content and is quite popular b the marketplace. You could say it’s the trenni ' s rival,” 

“Huh. Seems one thbg never changes: a nation’s power is b its money.” The always-quick Holo munched away on her bread. 
“Exactly. Nations do not always fight through strength of arms. If your country’s cumency is overwhekned by a foreign coni, you’ve 
been just as thoroughly conquered. All the foreign kbg needs to do is cut off your supply of money, and your marketplace will die. Without 
money, you can neither buy nor selL They control your economy.” 

“So they’re bereasbg the silver content b order to gab advantage over their rival,” said Holo, lickbg her fingers after finishbg the 

bread. 

Havbg come that far, Lawrence ima gin ed that Holo might realize she had somethbg to say. 

“I suppose my ears aren’t completely om nis cient.” Evidently she did. 

“It’s entirely possible that Zheren wasn’t actually lybg,” agreed Lawrence. 

“Mm I quite agree.” 

She was bebg so reasonable that Lawrence found himself taken aback. Even though she’d admitted she wasn’t perfectly accurate, 
he fully expected her to angrily chide him for doubting her senses. 

“What, did you t hin k I was gobg to be angry?” 

“I surely did.” 

“Well, I might be angry at that\" she said with a mis chievous s mile . 

“In any case, Zheren might not have been lybg.” 

“Hmm So where are we gobg now?” 

“Now that we know which cob to look bto, were gobg to look bto it.” 

“So, to the min t?” 

Lawrence couldn’t help laughbg at her naive question, which earned hbt a sharp, angry look. “If a merchant like me showed up at 




the mint, the only greeting I’d get would be the business end of a spear. No, we’re going to see the cambist.” 

“Huh. I guess there are t hing s even I don’t kn ow.” 

Lawrence was understanding Holo’s personality better and better. “Once we’re there, we’ll see how the coin has been performing 
recently” 

“What do you mean?” 

“When a currency’s value changes drastically, there are always si gn s.” 

“Like the weather before a storm?” 

Lawrence smiled at the amusing analogy “Something like that. When the purity is going to increase a lot, it increases a little at a 
time, and when it’s going to drop, it will drop gradually.” 

“ Mmm . ” 

It didn’t seem like Holo My understood, so Lawrence launched into a lecture, sounding for all the world like a determined 
schoolteacher. 

“Currency is based on trust. Relative to the absolute value of the gold or silver in them, coins are obviously more highly valued. 01 
course, the value is set very careMy, but since what you’re actually doing is arbitrarily assigning a value to something with no inherent 
worth, you can think of it as a ball of trust. In lact, is long as the changes to a coin’s purity aren’t large, they’re impossible to detect. Even a 
cambist has difficulty with it. You have to melt the coin down to be sure. But because a currency is based on trust, when it gains popularity 
its actual value can exceed its fece value — or do the opposite. There are many possible reasons for changes in its popularity, and one of the 
biggest is a change in the gold or silver purity of the coin. That’s why people are so sensitive to changes in a currency — so sensitive that 
even changes too small to detect with eyeglasses or a scale can still be considered major.” 

He finished his lengthy digression. Holo stared o If into the distance, appearing to be deep in thought. Lawrence suspected even the 
canny Holo wouldn’t understand everything from the first explanation. He prepared him self to answer her questions, but none were 
forthcoming. 

When he looked more careMy at her fece, she seemed not to be trying to piece things together in her head, but rather as if she was 
co nfirming something. 

He didn’t want to believe it, but she may well have understood perfectly the first time. 

“Hmph. So when whoever makes the coins wants to change the purity, first they’ll make a minute change to see what the reaction 
is, then they’ll adjust it up or down, yes?” 

Having an apprentice like this was certainly a mix ed blessing. A superior apprentice was the pride of any merchant, but hu milia tion 

lurked. 

Lawrence hid the frustration he felt — it had taken him a M month to understand the concept of currency valuation. “ Y-yeah, that’s 
about right,” he answered. 

“The human world certainly is complicated.” Despite the admission, her comprehension was terrifyingly quick. 

As the two conversed, they approached a narrow river. It wasn’t the Slaude that flowed by Pazzio, but rather an artificial canal that 
diverted water from the Slaude, so that goods coming down the river could be efficiently transported into the city center without having to 
brin g them ashore first. 

To that end, rafts were constantly floating along the river, tended by boatmen whose voices as they shouted at one another were 
now audible. 

Lawrence was headed for the bridge that spanned the canal Cambists and goldsmiths had long situated their businesses on bridges. 
There they would set up their tables and their scales and do business. Naturally, they were closed on rainy days. 

“Oh ho, it’s quite crowded,” remarked Holo as they reached the largest bridge in Pazzio. With the sluice gates closed, flooding was 
impossible, so a bridge fer larger than could ever be constructed over an ordinary river connected both sides of the canal, with cambists 
and goldsmiths packed elbow- to- elbow along its sides. All were highly successM and the cambists in particular were kept busy changing 
money from lands near and fer. 

Next to them, the goldsmiths busied themselves with their jewelry and alchemy. There were no crucibles lor melting metal, but small 
jobs and orders for larger ones were common. As one would expect from a place where the bulk of the city’s taxes were levied, the place 
feirly smelled of money. 

“There are so many; how does one choose?” 

“Any merchant worth his salt has a favorite cambist in each town. Follow me.” 

They walked up the congested bridge, Holo scurrying to keep up with Lawrence. 

The bridges were crowded with passersby even in the best of times, and even though it was now illegal everywhere, the 
apprentices of the cambists and goldsmiths would jump from the bridge on errands for their masters, turning the milie u cami-valesque. The 
liveliness inevitably resulted in fraud — and it was always the customers who risked being cheated. 

“Ah, there he is.” Lawrence himself had been swindled many times in the past, and only once he’d made friends with certain money 
changers had it stopped. 

His favored cambist in Pazzio looked a bit younger than him . “Ho, Weiz. It’s been a while,” said Lawrence to the feir-haired 
cambist, who was just finishing business with another customer. 

Weiz looked up at the mention of his name and s mile d broadly upon recognizing Lawrence. “Well, if it isn’t Lawrence! It has 
indeed been a while! When did you get into town?” 

The association between the two professionals had been long. It was like a friendship, formed not out of kindness but necessity. 

“Just yesterday,” replied Lawrence. ‘Took a detour from Yorenz to do some business.” 




“You never change, old friend. You look well!” 

“I’m all right. How about yourself?” 

“Hemorrhoids, my friend. Finally caught the curse of our trade! It’s not pleasant.” 

Weiz spoke with a smile, but it was the unpleasant proof of the true cambist. Sitting all day in one place so as not to miss a 
customer, nearly all of them suffered from hemorrhoids eventually. 

“So, what brings you here today? Coming by at this hour means you must have need of my services, eh?” 

‘Yeah, actually, I have a favor to ask...uh, are you all right?” asked Lawrence. As if coming out of a dream, Weiz looked back to 
Lawrence from somewhere else. His eyes soon drifted away to elsewhere, though. 

He was looking at the figure next to Lawrence. 

“Who’s the girl?” 

“Picked her up in Pasloe on my way here.” 

“Huh. Picked her up, you say?” 

“Well, more or less. Wouldn’t you say?” 

“Mm? Mm. . .mi gh t not be quite the word for it, but more or less, I’ll allow,” said Holo with some reluctance, pausing her curious 
glancing here and there to answer Lawrence. 

“So, what’s your name, miss?” 

“Mine? ’Tis Holo.” 

“Holo, eh? Good name.” 

Weiz grinned shamelessly; Holo returned it with a not- altogether- displeased s mile that Lawrence did not particularly appreciate. 
“Well, if you have nowhere in particular to go, why not work here? 

I just happen to find myself in want of a maid. Someday you might follow in my footsteps, or perhaps even become my bride — ” 
“Weiz, I’ve come for a favor,” said Lawrence, cutting him off Weiz looked suitably offended. 

“What? Have you already had your way with her?” Weiz had always had an indelicate manner of speaking. 




Far from having “had his way with her,” Lawrence found himself bein g toyed with by Holo, so he answered with an emphatic 
negative. 

“Well, then, you should let me have a go,” snapped Weiz, looking to Holo and smiling sweetly. Holo fidgeted nervously, 
occasionally pausing to say things like “Oh, my,” an affectation Lawrence tailed to find amusing. 

Naturally, he concealed his irritation. “We’ll discuss that later. Business first.” 

‘Hmph. Fine, then. What do you want?” 

Holo snickered. 

‘Have you any recently min ted trenni coins? If you can. I’d like the three most recently issued coins.” 

“What, do you know something about the purity changing?” 

Weiz knew his business — he’d immediately realized what Lawrence was up to. 

“Something like that,” said Lawrence. 

“Well, watch yourself friend. ’Tisn’t so easy to get ahead of the crowd,” said Weiz — which meant that even the cambists hadn’t 
heard of any im min ent changes. 

“So, do you have any or don’t you?” 

“I do indeed. There’s a new coin came out just last month, at Advent. Then the one before that.. .here it is.” 

Weiz produced lour coins from slots in the wooden box behind him and gave them to Lawrence. Hie year of issue was carved in 
the wood. 

There was no visible difference between any of the coins. 

“We handle money all day and haven’t noticed anything. They’re cast in the same mold, using the same ingredients. The lineup of 
artisans at the min t hasn’t changed in years. There’ve been no coups, and there’s no reason to change the coin,” said Weiz. 

The weight and color of the coins had already been scrutinized, but Lawrence still held them up to the sun and looked at them 
carefully. It seemed there really hadn’t been any change. 

“It’s no use, friend. If you could tell just by looking, we’d have noticed long ago,” said Weiz, his elfin in his cupped hands. “Give it 
up,” he seemed to be saying. 

“ Hm . What now, I wonder,” said Lawrence with a sigh, returning the coins to Weiz’s outstretched palm Hiey made a pleasant 
c lin kin g sound as they fell 

“Don’t want to melt them down, eh?” said Weiz. 

“Don’t be ridiculous. I can’t do that,” Lawrence retorted. 

Melting down currency was a crime in any country. Weiz laughed at the preposterous notion. 

However, Lawrence was now at a loss. He’d been sure that if there had been any change in the coin, Weiz would’ve had some 
Idea of it. 

What to do? 

It was then that Holo spoke up. 

“Let me see them,” she said, at which point Weiz looked up and gave her his best s mile . 

"Oh, certainly, certainly,” he said, handing the coins over — though when she reached out to take them, he took her hands, not 
letting go for some time. 

“Oh, sir, you’re such a cad!” said Holo with a snfile, to shattering effect. Weiz reddened and scratched his head. 

“Can you tell something?” Lawrence asked, ignoring Weiz. He doubted even Holo would be able to discern the purity of a coin. 
“Well now, let’s see,” she said. 

Just when he wondered what she would do, Holo brought the hand that contained the money to her ear and shook it, jingling the 

coins. 

“Ha-ha, now that's impossible,” said Weiz with a grin. 

It was said that master money changers with decades of experience could tell a coin’s purity just by listening to its sound, but that 
was mostly legend. It was like saying a merchant’s goods would always appreciate. 

But Lawrence wondered. Holo had a wolfs ears, after all 

“Hmm,” said Holo once she was finished. She chose two coins and returned the rest to the money changing table. 

She jingled those two coins together, then repeated the process with different combinations of coins, a total of six times to check all 
possible combinations. Then she spoke. 

“I cannot tell,” she said. 

Perhaps possessed by the memory of how bashful Holo had been when he’d grabbed her hands, Weiz put on an expression of 
sympathy so exaggerated it was hard not to wonder if he’d ever return to normal “Oh, too bad! Too bad, indeed!” he said. 

“WeU, we’ve wasted enough of your time,” said Lawrence. “We’ll have a drink sometime.” 

“Indeed! That’s a promise — a promise, you hear me!” 

Overpowered by Weiz’s vehemence, Lawrence promised, then the pair put the cambist’s stall behind them 
Nonetheless, Weiz waived enthusiastically at them as they left. Holo looked back several times and waved shyly in return. 

Once the crowds closed around them and Weiz could no longer be seen, Holo looked ahead again. She burst into laughter. 

“He’s an interesting sort!” 

‘Tor a matchless philanderer, I suppose so.” It wasn’t a lie, but Lawrence felt he had to take Weiz down a notch anyway. “So, 
what about the silver purity? Has it risen or fallen?” he asked, s miling down at Holo. Her grin disappeared and she seemed surprised. 




“You’ve gotten quite good at ferreting the truth out, haven’t you?” 

“I’m the only one who knows about those ears of yours, after alL I know I saw them twitch.” 

Holo chuckled. “Can’t let my guard down.” 

“But what surprised me is that you didn’t say anything about it there. Your lie was unexpected.” 

“Whether or not he would’ve believed me, aside, we don’t know what the other people nearby would’ve done. Hie fewer people 
that know a secret, the better, no? I suppose you can consider it compensation.” 

“Compensation?” Lawrence parroted back. He wondered what he’d done that merited compensating. 

“You were a bit jealous back then, no? This is in exchange for that.” 

Lawrence’s expression stiffened at Holo’s teasing glance. 

How had she kn own? Or was she just a little too good at luring him into tipping his hand? 

“Oh, don’t worry about it. All men bum with foolish jealousy.” 

It was painfully true. 

“But women are fools to take delight in it. This world is full of fools no matter where you look,” said Holo, drawing slightly nearer 
to Lawrence. 

It seemed that Holo had experience with romance as well as matters mercantile. 

She chuckled. “Though to me, you’re both just lowly humans.” 

“Yet here you are, in human form Best not bare your fangs now, in front of your beloved wolves.” 

‘Ha, a flick of my lovely tail c banns human and wolf alike!” Holo put a hand on her hip and swayed insouciantly. Somehow 
Lawrence got the feeling that she wasn’t lying. 

“Joking aside,” she said, to Lawrence’s relief “it was just a bit, but the new coins have a slightly duller sound.” 

“Duller?” 

Holo nodded. A duller sound meant that the silver purity had dropped. A small change was hard to discern, but if the purity 
dropped enough for the silver coins to become visibly darker, any plebian could tell the difference in sound. If what Holo said was true, it 
could be a sign that the trenni was going to become less pure. 

“Hmm.but if that’s true, it’s reasonable to assume that Zheren was lying all along,” said Lawrence. 

“I wonder. The boy will have to return your ten trenni, depending on how this plays out.” 

“I’d gotten that hr. If he’d just wanted to swindle some money by se lling bad infonnation, he’d have done it at the church without 
going to all the trouble of meeting at a bar.” 

“ ’Tis a puzzlement.” 

Holo laughed, but in his min d Lawrence was frantically trying to figure out the situation. 

But the more he thought about it, the stranger it got. What was Zheren planiftng? He was unquestionably planning something. II 
Lawrence could figure out the motive, he knew he might be able to profit as well. That’s why he’d taken this risk in the first place, but the 
fact that he still hadn’t the faintest idea of Zheren’ s true motivation bothered him . 

How did anyone make money from a drop in silver price and coin purity in the first place? All he could t hin k of was long-term 
investment. If gold or silver fell from a hi gh price to a low, you could sell at the high price, then buy up exactly what you sold after it felL 
You’d end up with exactly as much gold as you started with, plus the difference in price. Speculation on gold and silver was always 
fluctuating. If you waited for it to return to its original price, you could realize a profit in the end. 

However, he didn’t have time for that kind of long- term planning. For one thing, half a year simply wasn’t enough time. 

“Well, Zheren brought me the deal, so he must have something to gain. He must.” 

“Assuming he’s not some kind of fool,” added Holo. 

“He did mention not being responsible for losses. Which means. . .” 

“Heh-heh,” Holo began to laugh. 

“What?” 

“Heh. Ha-ha. Ha-ha-ha! You’ve been taken, my friend!” 

Lawrence turned to Holo, startled. ‘Taken?” 

“Oh, yes.” 

‘Tor.. .what? The ten trenni ?’ 

“Hee-hee-hee. Forcing money out of someone isn’t the only kind of swindle.” 

Lawrence had heard of and seen many scams in Iris seven years of experience, but he had trouble understanding what Holo was 
talking about. 

“What a scam! A plan where his opponent may or may not gain, but he is guaranteed to never lose!” 

Lawrence’s head swirled, white-hot. He nearly forgot to breathe. Soon the blood rose to his lace. 

“That boy will never lose. In his worst case, Iris profit is zero. If silver drops, all he does is return your money to you. If it rises, he 
gets part of whatever you make. It’s a business that requires no capital Even if no profit appears, he’ll be fine.” 

Lawrence was overwhelmed by exhaustion. To have been had by such a frivolous scheme! 

But it was true. He had been the one who’d sworn there was some larger ulterior motive. A traveling merchant so used to using 
every trick he could would naturally assume so. And so he had. 

Zheren had predicted a profit was almost sure to appear. 

‘Heh. Humans are pretty smart,” said Holo, as though they were talking about somebody else’s problem Lawrence could only 
sigh. Fortunately, he hadn’t yet gone out of his way to invest in trenni. All he had risked was what he had on hand. There was nothing in 




the contract he had with Zheren about how many he was obligated to purchase. All he could do now was pray there were no fluctuations in 
the marketplace. He could then point out Zheren’s lie, and there’d be nothing stopping him from getting his ten silver pieces back. Naturally 
if the price dropped, he’d be able to regain them legitimately, so losing only a single piece to him felt downright inexpensive. 

When a merchant let his guard down, normally he lost everything. 

But here, all Zheren had really done was hurt Lawrence’s pride. He slumped a bit before Holo, who snickered at him out of the 
comer of her mouth. 

“Although...” Holo began. 

Lawrence looked at her beseechingly, as if to say, there’s more? Holo looked back predatorily. 

“Isn’t it quite common for the silver purity to drop slightly?” Suspecting that his redemption might start with this, Lawrence forced 
him self to straighten his leaden back. “No, normally the purity is controlled with extreme care.” 

“ Hm . And yet out of nowhere, there’s a deal that hinges on the purity of silver coins. Can that just be chance, I wonder?” 

“Uh.. 

The grin ning Holo seemed to be enjoying this state of aflairs. No — she was definitely enjoying it. 

‘Now, you being in that village, at that time, with that sheaf of wheat — that was chance. There is nothing so hard as discerning 
chance from late. It’s harder than romance for a shut-in.” 

“That’s a strange analogy,” was all Lawrence could answer. “You’re lost in the maze of your own thoughts. When that happens, 
you need a new perspective. When I’m hunting prey, sometimes I’ll climb a tree. The forest looks different from on high. For example” — 
said Holo the Wisewolf with a crooked grin that bared her left feng — “what if the person who’s planning something isn’t that kid?” 

“Oh . . 

Lawrence felt like he’d been struck over the head. 

“There’s no reason Z heren’s profit had to come from you. For example, perhaps he was hired by somebody else, and those wages 
motivated him to pull you into the strange deal,” 

Though she was frilly two heads shorter than him , Holo seemed a giant. 

“If you’re looking at a single withered tree, it can seem like a grievous wound to the lbrest. But from the forests perspective, that 
tree’s remains will nourish other plants, acting for the good of the whole forest. If you change your perspective, a situation right in front of 
you can reverse itself So — have you seen anything new?” 

For a moment, Lawrence suspected that Holo already knew something, but from her tone it seemed that she was not testing him 
but rather was genuinely hying to help. Nothing was more important to a merchant than knowledge. But such knowledge was no mere 
commodity to be priced. 

The situation before him . His knowledge of that technique. 

Lawrence thought — thought about it from a different perspective. 

Zheren, the only man he’d talked to directly — what if Zheren’s gains were co ming not from Lawrence, but from some other party? 

Lawrence’s breath caught in his chest the instant the thought came to his min d. 

If that were indeed the case, he could t hin k of only one possible explanation. 

He’d heard the setup from another traveling merchant when they drank together in another town. The sheer scope of the tale was 
so huge he’d assumed it was yet another tavern-story. 

Still, the story could conceivably explain why someone would do something so apparently meaningless as buying up a depreciating 
silver currency. 

He could also see why Zheren would be lying even as he signed a contract before a public servant, and would use his influence in a 
tavern, acting in a way that didn’t make sense for a swindler. 

Zheren had been trying to lend the transaction as much credibility as he could in order to tempt Lawrence into buying up silver 

coins. 

If Lawrence was right, Zheren had been hired by another party to buy up silver coins. Whoever it was wanted to collect silver as 
discreetly as possible. 

The best way to collect a particular currency without attracting any attention would be to hire merchants to do it for you, appealing 
to their self-interest. 

Merchants who stood to turn a profit by buying up silver currency would not want to share information with others and would 
naturally be extremely carefifl. Then, you could just wait lor an opportune moment and smoothly take over the collected currency, 
accomplishing your goal without i nflu encin g the marketplace or tipping anybody off! 

It was a common technique for buying up a commodity in advance of a higher price. 

The really clever part of this plan was that if the silver currency fell, the merchants would want to unload their silver in order to 
minimiz e their losses. 

This would make taking over their silver holdings fer from difficult, and pride would keep the merchants who’d sustained losses 
from admitting that they’d invested in silver currency. 

It was a perfect plan for colleting coinage without anyone kn owin g . 

The massive scale of the plan could yield obscene profits. At least, the profits mentioned in the stories about such plans were 
stupendous. 

Lawrence chuckled in spite of himself 

“Heh. You’ve figured something out, have you?” said Holo. 

“Let’s go.” 




“ Hm ? Uh, where?” 

Lawrence had already started jogging away. He turned to Holo, impatient. “The Milone Company. That’s how the plan works. The 
more depreciating silver currency that can be bought up, the more profit there will be!” 

Once he’d discovered the motivation behind someone’s plan, he could profit from it. 

And the bigger their plan, the better. 




Chapter 4 



The whole of the Milone Company went from shocked to vigilant upon Lawrence’s visit. Unsurprisingly — as Lawrence proposed 
that together they deal with the plot behind Zheren’s swindle. If Lawrence had found Zheren’s initial proposal difficult to believe, the Milone 
Company found Lawrence’s scheme that much harder to swallow. 

And of course there was the matter of the liirs. They weren’t so angry as to have it color future transactions, but the supervisor did 
s mile ironically upon seeing Lawrence. 

Even so, what spurred the Milone Company into tentative action was seeing the contract that Lawrence had signed with Zheren 
before the public witness, proving that they could investigate the deal as much as they wished before proceeding. 

Lawrence also asked them to check into Zheren’s background, impressing upon them that this was no simple fraud. 

If they did so, the Milone Company would naturally have to wonder why the plan was so intricate for a mere swindle. Uiey’d want 
to investigate it simply for their own future reference, 

Lawrence anticipated — and he was right. 

After all, if everything Lawrence said was true, the Milone Company stood to reap enormous profit. 

The Milone Company, like any company, was ever- watchful for a chance to get ahead of its competitors. Lawrence’s expectation 
that they would overlook a proposals shadiness if it promised sufficient gain was correct. 

Having sparked an initial interest in the plan on their part, Lawrence’s next task was to prove Zheren’s existence. He and Holo 
hurried to the Yorend tavern that evening and informed the barmaid that they wished to meet with Z heren. As expected, Zheren did not 
frequent the place every night, and the bannaid told Lawrence that he’d not yet come by that particular day. But at length as the sun sank 
low Zheren arrived. 

Lawrence made idle merchant chatter about this subject and that, and all the while a Milone employee sat at a nearby table, 
eavesdropping. In the days to come, the Milone Company would investigate Zheren and deter min e whether Lawrence’s proposal was true 
or not. 

Lawrence believed that Zheren had to have the support of a powerful merchant. If that was frue, it would be easy for the Milone 
Company to trace. 

There was, however, a problem. 

“Will we be in time?” Holo asked upon returning to their irm that evening. 

Just as Holo suggested, the problem was time. Even if Lawrence’s expectations were correct, depending on circumstances they 
could miss the chance to realize any gain. No — there would be profit either way, but perhaps not enough to induce the Milone Company to 
act. Without them, it would be difficult for Lawrence to turn a profit on his own. On the other hand, if the Milone Company moved quickly, 
the potential gain would be stunning. 

Both his own plan and the plan he suspected Zheren of being a part of depended on time. 

“We should have enough time. That’s why I came to the Milone Company in the first place.” 

By candlelight, Lawrence poured some wine he’d bought at the tavern into a cup. He looked down into the cup briefly before 
draining half of it in one go. Holo was sitting cross-legged on the bed; she drank her cup dry and looked at Lawrence. 

“Is this company really so capable?” she asked. 

“Doing business in foreign countries requires very keen ears — hearing merchants talking in a bar or customers in the marketplace. II 
they weren’t much better at collecting information than t heir competition, they’d never be able to open up branches in foreign countries, 
much less have those branches flourish. The Milone Company is very good at this sort of thing. Investigating someone like Zheren is child’s 
play for them.” 

Lawrence poured more wine for Holo — at her urging — as he spoke. By the time he finished, Holo had already drained her cup 
again. It was astonishing. 

“Huh.” 

“What is it?” Holo asked, staring listlessly off into the distance. At first Lawrence thought she must have been pondering something, 
but soon it was clear that she was merely drunk. 

‘You’ve had quite a bit,” he said. 

“The charms of wine are many.” 

“I suppose this is a good vintage. Normally I never drink anything so fine.” 

“Is that so?” 

“When there’s no money, I’ll drink wine thick with grape drippings, wine so bitter it can’t be drunk without adding sugar, honey, or 
ginger to it. Wine transparent enough to see the bottom of the cup is a true luxury.” 

Hearing this, Holo looked vaguely into her cup. “ Hm . And I thought this was normal.” 

“Ha! Well, you’re higher and mightier than I.” 

Holo’s expression stiffened. She set her cup down on the floor, then immediately curled up into a tight ball on the bed. 

Her reaction was so sudden that Lawrence could only look on in shock. He assumed that it wasn’t simply because she was now 




sleepy. 

“What’s wrong?” he asked, not having the faintest idea what her problem was, but Holo’s ears didn’t so much as twitch. 

He said nothing more as he racked Iris brain trying to figure out her problem, and finally hit upon it — the conversation he’d had with 
her when they’d first met. 

“Are you angry because I said you have more status than I do?” 

When Lawrence had demanded to see Holo’s wolf form, she’d said she hated being feared. 

She also despised being celebrated as some kind of deity. 

Lawrence remembered a song he’d heard from a traveling minstrel It claimed that the reason a god needed a festival every year 
was because it was lonely. 

“I’m sorry. I didn’t mean anything by it.” 

Holo didn’t move. 

“You’re a.. .how shall I say it? You’re nothing special — wait, no, that’s wrong. You’re not a commoner. Ordinary? No, that’s not 

Lawrence became more and more agitated as he failed to find the right words. 

All he wanted to say was that Holo wasn’t special, but he simply couldn’t articulate that. 

As he continued to cast about for something to say, Holo’s ears finally pricked, and he heard her snicker slightly. 

Holo rolled over and s mile d indulgently at Lawrence. “How inarticulate. You’ll never attract a female that way.” 

“Urgh.” 

Lawrence immediately remembered a time when he had stayed over at a certain inn, waiting for a blizzard to pass, and become 
taken with a girl there. She flatly rejected him , for no reason other than the one Holo gave: he was desperately inarticulate. 

The sharp-eyed wolf soon discerned this. “I was right, eh?” she chuckled. “Still, that was... immature of me.” 

Lawrence softened at Holo’s apology, and he offered his own again. “Sorry.” 

“I do truly dislike it, though. Younger wolves were friendly enough, but there was always a fine. Weary of it, I left the forest. I 
suppose” — Holo looked off into the distance then down at her hands again — “I was looking for a friend.” 

Holo gave a self-deprecating smile. 

“A friend, eh?” 

“Mm” 

Lawrence would have thought this topic unpleasant for her, but Holo’s answers had been strangely upbeat, so he asked the 
question that was on his min d. 

“And did you find one?” 

Holo s mile d bashfully and did not immediately answer. 

Given her expression, her answer was obvious. She s mile d as she was t hin kin g of the friend she’d made. 

“Yes.” 

But Lawrence didn’t find her happy nodding at all funny. 

“He’s a fellow from the village ofPasloe,” she continued. 

“Oh, the one whose wheat you borrowed?” 

“Mm. He’s a bit foolish, but very cheerful. He wasn’t the least hit surprised when he saw my wolf form I suppose he is a bit odd, 
but a good fellow nonetheless.” 

To hear her speaking as though of a loved one, Lawrence wrinkled his nose but hid it behind his wine cup — he didn’t want her to 
see. 

“He really is a fool though. Sometimes I’m at a loss.” 

Holo spoke happily, seeming slightly bashful to be discussing the past. She no longer looked at Lawrence but hugged her tail, 
playing absently with its fur. 

Suddenly she let out a childish giggle and tumbled back on the bed, sounding for all the world like a child sharing a secret with a 

friend. 

She was probably just tired, but to Lawrence’s eyes it seemed as though she had left him be hin d and was letting her memories 
flood over her. 

That was no reason to rouse her, though, so with a small sigh, he drained his wine cup. 

‘Triends, eh?” he murmured, then placed the cup on the table and stood. He walked over to the bed and drew the blanket up over 

Holo. 

Her cheeks were slightly flushed as she slept innocently, but the longer he looked at her the more clouded his thoughts became, so 
he turned his back to her and headed for his own bed. 

But as he blew the tallow candle out and lay down, he felt certain regret. 

He wished he’d claimed a lack of money and gotten a room with a single bed. 

Lawrence sighed more deeply this time as he faced away from her. 

If his horse had been there, it probably would’ve sighed at him, too, he thought. 

“We accept your proposal,” said the head of the Milone Company’s Pazzio branch, Richten Marheit, in an even tone. It had been 
only two days since Lawrence had come to the Milone Company with his proposaL The company was indeed very efficient. 

“I am very gratefuL May I assume that you’ve discovered who is backing Zheren?” 




“He has the support of the Medio Company. I hardly need mention that they’re the second-largest company in the city.” 

“The Medio Company, eh?” 

Based in Pazzio, Medio had many branches. They were the largest agricultural broker in Pazzio, particularly for wheat, and were all 
the more impressive for having their own ships with which to move their product. 

Yet something stuck in Lawrence’s mind. The Medio Company was large, but he’d expected Zheren’s backer to be even larger — 
perhaps a nobleman. 

“We believe there is a still- larger figure behind the Medio Company. With their resources alone, it would probably be impossible to 
enact the plan you’ve described. There is probably a nobleman operating behind the Medio Company, but there are many such figures who 
deal with them, and we’ve been unable to narrow it down to a single person. But as you yourself said, it won’t matter as long as we’re first 
to act.” 

Marheit smiled slyly, showing a confidence borne of having the immense resources of the Milone Company to call on, the likes of 
which Lawrence could barely ima gin e. Their main branch was patronized by none but royalty and hi gh priests. They had nothing to fear 
from a deal like this. 

It was important for Lawrence not to betray any temerity. In negotiation, showing weakness or servility was tantamount to losing. 
He had to be bold. 

He replied in an even tone. 

“Well, then, shall we discuss how to split the profits?” 




It went without saying that these negotiations would give rise to his dreams. 

Seen off by all the employees of the Milone Company branch except the boss, Lawrence left humming a tune, unable to suppress 
his happiness. 

He’d proposed that the company give him five percent of its profits from the currency exchange. This was a mere one-twentieth ol 
its take, but Lawrence couldn’t stop smiling. 

After all, if the Milone Company moved as he suggested, the amount of trenni silver that could be bought up was not one or two 
thousand, but rather two or three hundred thousand. If — as the rough estimates suggested — they exacted a ten-percent return from the 
deal, Lawrence’s share could exceed a thousand coins of pure profit. If he topped two thousand coins, and wasn’t too extravagant, he 
would be able to set up a shop in a town somewhere. 

However, when compared to the gain the Milone Company was anticipating, the profit made from unloading the silver coin was a 
mere bonus. They moved as a company, so such profits were insignificant. 

Lawrence could never actually hold that kind of gain. It was simply too huge and would never fit in his purse — but if the Milone 
Company could realize the profit, Lawrence would be owed a significant debt and, once he opened his shop, could make a large profit on 
that loan. 

So it was no surprise that he was humming so cheerfully. 

“You seem pleased,” said Holo, finally at the end of her patience as she walked beside him . 

“I’d like to see the man who wouldn’t be pleased at a time like this. This is the greatest day of my life.” Lawrence gestured 
expansively. The gesture matched his mood — as if he were ready to catch anything in those outstretched arms. 

The shop he’d long dreamed of opening was right before him . 

“Well, I’m glad it’s going so well,” said Holo listlessly, her mood in stark contrast to Lawrence’s. She covered her mouth with her 

hand. 

It was nothing — she was merely hungover. 

“I told you to go sleep in the hotel if you’re feeling unwell” 

“I was worried you’d get sucked into something unsavory un less I came with you.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“Why, precisely what I said ...urp.” 

“Honestly — just bear up a little longer. There’s a shop ahead. We’ll rest there.” 

“...All right.” Holo nodded with a vulnerability that seemed deliberate and grabbed hold of his outstretched arm. Wisewolf or not, 
one could hardly accuse her of having any self-restraint. 

Lawrence, at a loss, muttered “honestly,” again. Holo had no response. 

The shop they entered was a tavern attached to a small inn Though it was ostensibly a drinking establishment, it specialized in light 
meals and morning to night had a constant stream of merchants and travelers that used it as a rest stop. It was about a third full when they 
entered. 

“Juice for one — any kind’s fine — and bread for two,” said Lawrence. 

“Coming right up!” said the shopkeeper behind the counter cheerfully, then repeated the order to the kitchen. 

Lawrence listened to the shopkeeper as he led Holo to an empty table inside the tavern. 

Holo’s manner was more kitten than wolf as she sprawled over the table. The walk from the Milone Company exacerbated the 
fatigue of the alcohol work ing its way through her system. 

“Your tolerance is far from weak — you drank a lot yesterday.” said Lawrence. 

Holo’s ears pricked under her hood at Lawrence’s statement, but she seemed to lack the energy to look at him . 

“Uugh,” she groaned. 

“Here y’are, apple juice and two servings of bread.” 

“The bill?” 

“You’ll pay now, then? It comes to thirty-two lute ’. 1 

“One moment, please,” said Lawrence, opening the coin purse that was attached to his waist and rummaging inside it. As he 
collected the black coins that could easily be mis taken for bronze, the shopkeeper noticed Holo’s condition and s mile d ruefully. 

“A hangover, eh?” 

‘Too much wine,” said Lawrence. 

“Such are the mistakes of youth! It’s the same with drinking as it is with anything else — there’s a price. Plenty of young merchants 
stagger out of here with pale faces.” 

Any traveling merchant had indeed experienced this a few times. Lawrence him self was guilty of it on any number of occasions. 

“Here you are, thirty- two lutes ’ .’ 

“So it is. You should rest here awhile. I take it you couldn’t make it all the way back to your own inn?” 

Lawrence nodded, at which point the shopkeeper laughed heartily and retreated behind the counter. 

“Have some juice,” said Lawrence. Tt was pressed at just the right time.” Holo raised her head lethargically. Her features were so 
fine that even her pained expression had a certain charm. No doubt Weiz would’ve been happy to take the day off to nurse her back to 
health. Even the slightest smile from her would’ve been thanks enough. Lawrence chuckled at the thought as Holo sipped the juice and 
regarded him strangely. 

“Whew... I’ve not been hungover in centuries,” sighed Holo after drinkin g half the juice and regaining a bit of vigor. 




“A hung-over wolf is a sad sight indeed. I suppose I can imagine a bear drinking too much, but a wolf 

Bears often took bags filled with fermenting grapes hanging from the eaves of buildings. They had to be fermented to make wine, 
and as they did, they exuded a sweet scent. 

There were even stories of bears making off with such bags only to later collapse drunkenly in the forest. 

“It was probably bears I drank with the most in the forest,” said Holo. “There was a bit of tribute from humans, too.” 

The idea of bears and wolves drinking wine together sounded like something out of a fairy tale. What would the Church make of 
this if they overheard? 

“No matter how many times Tmhungover, though, I never seem to learn.” 

“Humans are the same way,” said Lawrence to the ruefully grin ning Holo. 

“Now that you mention it.. .what was I going to say? I had something to tell you, but now it’s gone. I feel like it was something 
rather important, too . ..” said Holo. 

“Well, if it’s that important, you’ll remember eventually.” 

‘‘Mmm.,.1 suppose. Ugh. It’s no good. I can’t remember,” she said, slumping back down on the table and closing her eyes. 

She had probably felt like this all day. The shopkeeper hadn't said it, but it was a good tiling they weren’t about to depart. The 
wagon’s shaking wouldn’t make her feel any better. 

“Anyway, all we have to do is leave the rest to the Milone Company. ‘Good things come to those who wait,’ after all Just rest until 
you feel better.” 

‘Ugh.. .it’s so undignified,” said Holo, sounding even more pathetic than before — she would likely feel ill for some time yet. 

“I suppose you’ll be off all day, then.” 

“Mm... it’s pathetic, but you’re right,” she answered, still sprawled on the table, opening a single eye to look at Lawrence. “Did you 
have plans of some kind?” 

“Hm? Well, I was t hin kin g of doing some shopping after checking in with the Company.” 

“Shopping, is it? You can go on your own. I’ll rest here awhile then return to the inn on my own,” said Holo, raising her head and 
sipping the apple juice again. “Or what — did you want me to come along?” 

Her teasing was by now standard, almost a greeting; so Lawrence simply nodded. 

“Oh, you’re no fun,” Holo pouted at Lawrence’s tranquility. Sipping perfunctorily at her drink, she must have expected him to 
become flustered, but even Lawrence could maintain his composure at times. 

Lawrence couldn’t help s miling down at Holo again as he chewed on a piece of bread. 

“I was t hin kin g of buying you a comb or a hat,” he said. “Perhaps some other time.” 

Holo’s ears twitched underneath the cloak. 

“...Just what are you planmng?” she asked, her eyes half lidded, but watching Lawrence carefully nonetheless. 

Lawrence could hear the swish, swish of her restlessly twitching tail. Apparently she was worse than he expected at hiding her 
thoughts. 

“What a way to talk.” 

“As the saying goes, one has to be even more careful with meat in one’s mouth than with meat that’s about to be taken away.” 
Hearing Holo’s bitter words, Lawrence drew close to her face and whispered into her ear. 

“If you’re going to act the prudent vvisewolf, at least do something about your restless ears and tail” 

Surprised, Holo felt for her ears. “Oh!” she said. 

“That should make us even,” said Lawrence with a hint of arrogance. Holo glared at him , thin- lipped and frustrated. 

‘You’ve got such lovely hair, it seems a shame for you not to have a comb for it,” he continued briskly. 

He was happy haring finally gotten the best of her, but if he pushed, it was quite possible she’d put him in his place again. 

However, upon hearing Lawrence’s words, the bored-looking Holo sniffed and sprawled across the table once more. “Oh, you’re 
talking about my hair,” she said shortly. 

“All you do is bind it back with a hempen string. You don’t even comb it.” 

“My hair isn’t important. A comb would be nice, though — for my tail” A swish, swish sound could be heard after she spoke. 
“...Well, if you say so.” 

Lawrence did t hin k that her flowing, silken hair was beautiful, and hair of any kind that was so long was very rare. It was difficult 
for anyone other than nobility to be able to wash their hair in hot water daily, so haring such long, beautiful hair was a mark of high birth. 

So like anyone else, Lawrence had a weakness for a girl with long, beautiful hair. Holo’s hair was so lovely that few among even 
the nobility could match it, yet she seemed not to understand its value at all 

If she were to hide her ears with a veil rather than a heavy cloak and wear fine robes instead of the rough clothes of a traveling 
merchant, she’d be the equal of any maiden from a min strel’s poem — but Lawrence shied away from saying so. 

There was no telling how she’d react, after alL 
“So, then.” 

“Hm?” 

“When will you buy this comb?” 

Holo looked up at Lawrence from her prone posture on the table, her eyes shining with a certain anticipation. 

“I thought you didn’t need one,” said Lawrence without rancor, his head cocked slightly. 

“I never said that. I would like a comb. A fine-tooth one, if possible.” 

Lawrence didn’t see the point of buying a comb if it wouldn’t be used to comb hair. In his mind, a fine brush of the sort used by 




weavers would be best for her tail 

Tfl buy you a brush. Shall I introduce you to a good weaver?” 

It was best to leave fur to experts with specialized tools, after all. Lawrence was only half- serious, but when he finished speaking 
and looked at Holo, his voice caught. 

She was angry — so angry she was gnashing her teeth. 

“You... you would treat my tail as a simple piece of fur?” she said, her intonation flat — surely not because she was afraid that talk of 
tails would be overheard by the other patrons. 

Lawrence winced at her vehemence, but Holo looked as unwell as she had all day. There was a lim it to how much she could 
counterattack. 

“I cannot take this anymore,” she said. 

Lawrence suspected that her threats were empty. 

He imagined that she might try crying, so he nonchalantly drank some apple juice. “What, are you going to throw a tantrum now?” 
he asked, a note of accusation in his voice. 

Naturally his resolve would waver if she actually burst into tears, but he didn’t say this. 

Perhaps chastened by his words, or possibly for some other reason, she opened her eyes slightly to regard Lawrence then looked 

away. 

Her childish demeanor was rather charming. With a small smile, Lawrence mused that it would be nice if she were always like this. 
Holo was silent for a moment. Then, in a small voice, she said, “I can’t take it. I have to vomit.” 

Lawrence almost tipped the cup of apple juice over as he scrambled to his feet and called out for the shopkeeper to brin g a bucket. 

Well after the sun had set in the west and the clamor from outside his window had subsided, Lawrence looked up from the desk. 
Pen in hand, he raised both amis and stretched expansively. His back popped gratiiyingly, and he turned Iris head left and right to work out 
the kinks in his neck, which also popped. 

He looked back down to the desk. On it was a sheet of paper with simple plans lor a shop — the town it would be situated in, the 
goods it would sell, and plans for its expansion. Written separately were construction costs, plans for securing citizenship, and a variety of 
other anticipated expenditures. 

It was a plan for rea lizing his dream — to own a shop. 

Even a week ago, this remained only a fantasy, but since Lawrence had made his deal with the Milone Company, it suddenly felt 
much more im min ent. If he could brin g in two thou sand trenni, then after selling some ornaments and jewels that amounted to Iris savings, 
he would be able to open his shop, Lawrence would be a traveling merchant no longer, but a town merchant. 

“Mmph .. . what’s that sound?” 

While Lawrence had been absorbed in gazing at the picture of the shop he’d drawn, Holo had at some point awoken. Her eyes 
were still blurry with sleep, but she appeared mostly recovered. She looked at Lawrence, blinked a few times, and dragged herself out of 
bed. Her eyes were slightly swollen, but she looked well enough. 

“How do you feel?” 

“Better. A bit hungry, though.” 

“If your appetite’s back, you must be fine,” said Lawrence, smiling and indicating the bread on the table. It was dark rye bread — 
the worst, cheapest bread you could get, but Lawrence enjoyed its bitter flavor and bought it frequently. 

Unsurprisingly, Holo made her displeasure with the bread known after a single bite but ultimately gave up, since there was nothing 
else to eat. 

“Is there anything to drink?” 

“The water jug’s right there.” 

Holo checked to see that the jug actually contained water and, after taking a drink, moved next to Lawrence as she munched away 
on the bread. 

“. . A drawing of a shop?” 

“My shop.” 

“Oh ho, not bad,” said Holo, looking intently at the paper as she ate. 

When traveling in a country whose language he didn’t speak, Lawrence would use drawings to make deals. Sometimes he simply 
couldn’t remember the name of a particular commodity, and interpreters were not always available. Hence, most traveling merchants were 
good at drawing. Whenever Lawrence turned a healthy profit, he would draw a picture of Iris future shop. It made him feel even better than 
drinkin g wine. 

And while he had confidence in his drawing abilities, it was nice to be praised. 

“What’s this writing?” 

“Location and expense planning. I don’t expect it to go exactly like this, of course.” 

“Hmm You’ve drawn parts of a city, too, I see. What city is it?” 

‘None in particular — just an idealized city for my shop.” 

“Ho-ho. You’ve been very detailed here — I suppose you’re planning to open it soon, then?” 

“If the deal with the Milone Company goes well, I will probably be able to.” 

“ Hm .” Holo nodded, not looking terribly excited at the idea. She popped a piece of bread into her small mouth, then walked back 
over to the table. 




Lawrence ima gin ed that the ensuing gulping sound was her finishing the water. 

“It’s every traveling merchant’s dream to have a shop. I’m no different.” 

“Heh. I kn ow. You’ve even gone so far as to sketch out your ideal city, so you must have done this many times before.” 

“When I draw it, I feel that it will happen someday.” 

“An artist I knew long ago said something like that — that he wanted to paint all the scenes he saw before him.” Holo bit into a 
second slice of bread and sat on the comer of the bed. “I doubt the artist would have fulfilled his dream even now, but it seems that yours is 
getting closer.” 

“Indeed. When I think about it, I can hardly stay still — I want to run around the Milone Company, swatting the ass of every 
employee I see.” 

It was a bit of an exaggeration, but far from a lie. Perhaps that was why Holo refrained from making fun, simply chuckling and 
saying, “I hope your dream comes true, then.” 

She continued. “Still, is having a shop such a good thing? Can’t you do well as a traveling merchant?” 

“If you profit, sure.” 

Holo cocked her head slightly. “What else would there be?” 

“A traveling merchant might make the rounds between twenty or thirty towns — if you don’t keep moving, you won’t make any 
money at all Most of your year is spent on a wagon.” Lawrence sipped a bit of wine from the cup on the table. “The life being what it is, 
you don’t really make any friends — just business associates.” 

Hearing his explanation, Holo seemed to realize something and to regret asking the question. 

She really is a good sort, Lawrence thought, and he continued, hoping to assuage her regret. “But if I could open a shop, I’d 
become a true citizen of a town. I could make friends, and it would be simple to search for a wife. It would be a great solace to me to 
know where I would be buried when I die. Though finding a bride who’ll stay beside me even in death.. .that will take some luck.” 

Holo laughed slightly. 

Among traveling merchants, the act of going to a new city to dig up new goods was known as “searching for a wife,” as it carried 
the sense of going to find something rare and valuable. 

In reality, though, simply opening up a shop did not guarantee that one would be close to the citizens of the town. 

Nonetheless, being able to stay on the same piece of land for a long time was every merchant’s dream 
“It will be bad for me if you open a shop, though,” said Holo. 

“Why’s that?” said Lawrence, turning around. Although her s mile had not disappeared, it was tinged with sadness. 

“If you open a shop, you won’t want to leave it. I’ll have to either travel alone or find a different companion.” 

Lawrence then remembered that Holo had said she wished to travel the world for a while then return to her homeland in the north. 
But she had her wits. She had the money she’d made from the fur sale. Surely she would be fine on her own. 

‘You could travel alone, though, right?” Lawrence had no particular agenda behind the words, but upon hearing them, Holo silently 
looked down as she ate her bread. 

“I’m tired of being alone,” she blurted out, looking suddenly childish as she swung her legs — which didn’t quite reach the floor — 
over the edge of the bed. She fell back and seemed so small that even the flickering candlelight threatened to swallow her. 

Lawrence recalled the time Holo had so fondly reminisced about her friend from centuries earlier. 

Dwelling so nostalgically on the past proved she was lonely. He remembered how she looked then, curled up as if to protect herself 
from a storm of isolation. 

Lawrence chose his words very carefully to avoid hurting her feelings — she didn’t often show this side of herself “I expect I’ll stay 
with you until you’re back home in the north country, though.” 

He had little choice but to say as much, but nonetheless Holo looked up with an expression that said “Really?” in a rather humble 
manner. Lawrence carefully concealed the excitement he felt and continued. 

“Even when the money comes in I won’t be able to open up a store right away.” 

‘Truly?” 

“Why would I lie?” said Lawrence. He couldn’t help smiling bitterly; Holo, too, smiled, but in relief The slight downward cast of 
her eyes made her seem somehow tinged with loneliness. Lawrence was struck with the incongruous realization that her eyelashes were 
really quite long. 

“So come on, don’t make that face,” he added. 

A city merchant would probably have been able to come up with something more effective to say, but unfortunately Lawrence was 
always traveling and forced into a life absent of women. Still, Holo looked up and s mile d slightly “Mm-hm,” she assented with a nod. 

Seeing such a small girl so meek made her seem almost fleeting somehow. The wolf ears she nonnally held so high lay flat and 
directionless, and her proud tail curled up uncertainly next to her body. 

It was suddenly silent. 

Lawrence continued to watch Holo, who seemed unable to return his gaze. 

She glanced at him just once, then quickly looked away. Lawrence felt he’d seen this before. Sifting through Iris memories, he 
realized it had been the apple incident, shortly after they’d arrived in Pazzio. 

She’d wanted apples then — what did she need now? 

Understanding another person’s desire was a singularly important skill for a merchant. 

Lawrence took a deep breath and stood. Surprised by the sudden noise, Hob’s ears and tail twitched, and she regarded 
Lawrence. Flustered by his sudden approach, she looked away. 




She reached her hands out to him as he stood before her — tremulously, almost frightened. 

“Was it crying in your sleep that made your eyes red?” Lawrence took her hand and sat beside her. He pulled her close and held 
her gently. 

“When I...” 

“Hm?” 

“When... when I open my eyes, they’re gone. Yue, Inti Paro, and MyurL.they’re all gone. They’re nowhere.” 

She was talking about her dream. Lawrence stroked her head softly as she s niffle d. The names she’d mentioned must have been 
her wolf friends, perhaps even fellow wolf- gods — but he was far from insensitive enough to ask. 

“I — I can live for centuries. So I thought I would go traveling. 

I was sure, so very sure, that I’d see them all again. But. .. they were gone. There was no one.” 

Holo’s hand trembled as she grasped Lawrence’s shirt. Lawrence him self didn’t want to be plagued by such dreams. 

If he were to return to his hometown, not a soul would remember him — sometimes he had si mila r nightmares. 

There were tales of merchants who’d left their homeland and not returned for twenty or thirty years. They would finally return home 
to find their village simply gone. It might have been razed to the ground in a war or stricken by plague or famine — there were any number of 
possible reasons. 

This is why traveling merchants dreamed of owning a shop. 

A shop meant a home, making a place for oneself 

“I don’t want to open my eyes and find no one there... I’m tired ofbeing alone. It’s cold. It’s . .. lonely.” 

Lawrence remained silent at her outpouring of emotion, only stroking her head. She was so distressed that anything he said would 
likely fall on deaf ears, and he couldn’t t hin k of anything appropriate to say anyway. 

He him self had been assailed by the winds of loneliness when riding his wagon or entering a new town. 

There was nothing one could do in such times — nothing one could hear and find consoling. The only tiring to do was find something 
to grab hold of and wait out the storm 

Holo continued to cry. 




Lawrence held her, and at length the waves of emotion subsided and she let go of his clothes, looking up at him . 

He let go of her, and she sat up, still s niffling . 

“...How humiliating,” said Holo, her nose and eyes still red but her voice calm. 

‘Traveling merchants have dreams like that, too,” said Lawrence. 

Holo giggled shyly and sniffled through her stuffed-up nose. 

“Your face is a mess. Hang on.” 

Lawrence stood and took the paper from the desk. The drawings and figures on the sheet were dry, so he thought it would be 
okay for her to blow her nose on it. 

“But... this is your ..” 

“I always throw them away when I’m done. The deal isn’t even finished yet — it’s too early to be optimistic,” said Lawrence with a 

s mile . 

Holo relumed his smile and took the paper. After blowing her nose mightily on it and wiping her eyes, she looked much better. She 
sighed and took a deep breath, then looked sheepish once more. 

Seeing her like this, Lawrence wanted to embrace her again but refrained. Holo was herself again, and he would likely be made 

light of 

“I’m in your debt now,” she said, picking up the now-crumbled bread and eating it. It was unclear whether or not she’d discerned 
his thoughts. 

Relieved in any case that he hadn’t been chided, he watched her as she finished eating and yawned, dusting her hands free from 
crumbs. She was probably tired from crying. 

“I’m still sleepy. Can you sleep?” she asked. 

“Soon, yes. Staying awake any longer would be a waste of candlelight.” 

“Heh, spoken like a true merchant,” said Holo, s miling as she sat cross-legged on the bed, then lay down. 

After taking one last look at her, Lawrence blew the candle out. 

Darkness fell instantly. As his eyes were still used to the light, it seemed pitch-black. The weather was clear and the stars were out. 
He couldn’t yet see the faint light that filtered through the wooden window. As he waited for his eyes to adjust, Lawrence felt his way to his 
own bed beneath the window in the comer of the room, careful not to trip over Holo’s bed on his way. 

Finally he made it and, after feeling the edge of the bed, lay down on it. In the past, Lawrence had bruised himself by carelessly 
flinging him self toward the bed and accidentally hitting the edge. He’d learned to be carefuL 
But there was no way for him to be prepared for what awaited him . 

As he started to lie down in the bed, he realized someone was already in it. 

“Wha — what are you — ” 

‘Don’t be such a prude,” said Holo in an irritated voice that was nonetheless flirtatious. 

Lawrence let himself be pulled down, and Holo pressed herself against him 
I I nlik e before when he’d held her gently, this embrace was tight. He felt her unmistakably soft body. 

Lawrence’s rising heartbeat could not be controlled. He was a healthy man, after all He’d embraced her tightly almost before he 
realized it. 

“...Can’t breathe...” came Holo’s constricted voice. He returned to his senses and relaxed his anns but did not let go of her. She 
made no move to push him away. 

Instead, she drew close to his ear and whispered. 

“Have your eyes adjusted yet?” 

“What do yon—” 

— Mean, he was about to say, but Holo cut him off with a finger pressed to his lips. 

“I finally remembered what I was going to say to you.” 

Her whispering voice was itchy. Itchy, indeed — though her sweetly intimate tone was gone, replaced by an alanning edge to her 

voice. 

“It’s a bit late. There are three people outside the door. I doubt they are guests.” 

Lawrence finally realized that Holo was already wearing her cloak. She rummaged around quietly, and soon all of Lawrence’s 
belongings appeared on his chest. 

“We’re on the second story. Fortunately there is no one outside. Are you ready?” 

Growing excited in a completely different sense now, Holo got up. Lawrence pretended to draw the blanket over himself, and put 
on his clothes. 

Just as he was affixing his silver dagger to his waist, Holo spoke loudly, her voice purposely carrying beyond the closed door. 
“Come, see my body ’neaththe moonlight!” 

As soon as she finished, Lawrence heard a window clatter open. Holo perched on the windowsill and jumped down without 
hesitation. Lawrence scrambled after her, putting his foot on the sill. He didn't hesitate, either — because be hin d him came the sound of the 
door being pried open, followed by heavy footsteps. 

He felt unpleasantly weightless for a moment, but his feet soon collided with the hard ground. 

Unable to bear the force of the impact, Lawrence landed in a squatting position. 

He was lucky not to have broken his leg, but Holo still laughed loudly at him , although she did extend her hand. 




“We’ll have to run. We’ve no time to collect the horse.” 

A stunned Lawrence glanced back at the stables. The horse had been strong and cheap but more importantly was the first thing 
he’d ever bought. 

Part of him wanted to make a break for the stables, but prudence told him not to. Holo’s course of action was the right one. 
Lawrence clenched his teeth and restrained him self 

“They will gain nothing by killing your horse; we’ll wait for firings to calm before retrieving it, yes?” said Holo by way oi 
consolation. Lawrence could only hope that it was true. He nodded and took a deep breath, grabbing her outstretched hand and pulling 
himself up. 

“Oh, also — ” 

Holo took the pouch that hung from her neck and undid the string that bound it closed. She poured roughly half of the wheat it 
contained into her hand. 

“Just in case. You should take some, too,” she said, casually thrusting the grains into the pocket on Iris chest without waiting for his 
reply. They felt warm; it was probably Holo’s body heat. 

After all, it was the wheat in which she lived. 

“Right, now let’s run.” 

Holo s mile d as though speaking with a trusted friend. Lawrence was about to reply but simply nodded his head and dashed with 
her toward the town in the night. 

“So, what I was going to say to you was this — if the Milone Company could check up on that boy, surely the reverse is true. His 
backers were bound to be alerted. If they discover we’re gone to another company with a deal, they’ll try to silence us, no?” 

The only light on the cobbled path was the moon, but it was enough to see by. They continued to run without spotting another 
person, then turned down an alley. 

Lawrence could barely see anything in the darkness there. Holo led him on, tugging on Iris hand as she ran, Lawrence stumbling 
after her. 

They ran near an intersection and saw a group of men behind them, shouting. He caught the words “Milone Company” among their 

shouts. 

They, too, knew that the only place Lawrence and Holo would find sanctuary was the Milone Company 

“Oops. I don’t know the way,” said Holo, still pulling on Lawrence’s hand as they came to a fork. Lawrence looked up and 
checked the moon’s position and phase and mentally roughed out a map of Pazzio. 

“This way.” 

They ran down the western fork. This part of Pazzio was old. Buildings were constantly being rebuilt, and the road wound through 
them like a snake. 

But Lawrence had visited Pazzio many times. Furtively checking their position against the main road as they went, the pair came 
closer and closer to the Milone Company. 

But their opponents were no fools. 

“Stop. There’s a guard.” 

They needed only to turn right at finis intersection, follow the road to its end, then turn left. Four blocks later, they’d be at the 
Milone Company. There should still be men loading and unloading wagons at this hour. If they could make it there, the thugs wouldn’t be 
able to touch them In a city of commerce, the best security was the wealth implied by the signboard of a large business. 

“Tch. We’re so close.” 

“Heh-heh. I’ve not hunted in many years, but this is my first time being hunted.” 

‘This is no time for jokes. Oh, well, we’ll have to take the long way around.” 

Lawrence backtracked to the original road, turning right along it. He decided that they’d take an alley after the next block and 
circle around to the Milone Company. 

But he was stopped after he made his first right turn. 

Holo grabbed his shirt and pushed him against the walL 
“Did you find them? They should be close by! Find them!” 

The current of fear that ran through him was worse than when he’d been chased by wolves in the forest. Two men came dashing 
violently out of a nearby alley. If Holo hadn’t stopped, she and Lawrence might have run right into them 
“Damn. There are too many of them And they know the area.” 

‘Mmm..’tis a bad situation,” said Holo. Her hood was down, exposing her wolf ears as she scanned left and right. 

“Shall we split up?” 

“Not a bad idea, but I’ve a better one.” 

“Which is?” 

Footsteps could be heard nearby. Undoubtedly every main road now had a guard on it. They’d be cornered as soon as they tried 
to use one. 

“I’ll head down the main road and draw them off Then you can take the chance to — ” 

“Wait. You can’t — ” 

“Now you listen. If we split up, you’re the one that will be caught. On my own, I won’t be caught, but you will And when that 
happens, who is going to go to the company? Shall I show them my ears and tail and beg for your rescue? Well?” 

Lawrence had no retort. He had already informed the Milone Company about the depreciating trenni silver. They might even 




abandon him and Holo both. Should that happen, his only recourse would be to play himself as a hump card and threaten to invest in their 
opponent. 

And only he could conduct those negotiations. 

“Either way it’s no good. If the Milone Company sees your ears and tail, they may turn you over to the Church. And I needn’t 
mention the Medio Company.” 

“So all I need do is avoid capture? And should I be caught, I’ll just hide my ears and tail for a day while you come to rescue me.” 
Perhaps because of her bravado, Lawrence wanted to stop her from doing this that much more. She s mile d up at him . 

“I’m Holo the Wisewolf Even if my ears and tail are discovered, I’ll pretend to be a mad wolf and none will want to come near 
me.” She grinned, showing her tangs. 

Yet all Lawrence could think of was embracing the sobbing girl who spoke of loneliness, with her impossibly slight form. He 
couldn’t imagine turning her over to these hired thugs. 

Still smiling, Holo continued. ‘Your dream is to own a shop, is it not? And just a moment ago I said I was in your debt. Are you 
trying to make a dishonorable wolf of me?” 

“Don’t be foolish! If you’re caught, you’ll be killed! What honor is there in that? I’ll wind up owing you a debt I can never repay!” 
raged Lawrence, his voice low. 

Holo smiled thinly and shook her head. She poked him lightly in the chest with her slender forefinger. “Loneliness is a deadly illn ess. 
We are even.” 

Lawrence had no words at the sight of her calm, gratefiil smile. Holo took advantage of the silence and continued. “Besides, you’re 
a quick t hin ker and clever — I promise. I trust you. I know you’ll come for me.” 

She quickly embraced the silent Lawrence and then slipped free of his grasp, dashing away. 

“There they are! On Loirme Road!” 

As soon as Holo ran out of the alley, the shouts could be heard, and the pursuers’ footsteps grew distant. 

Lawrence clamped his eyes shut for a moment, the forced them open and ran. If he missed this chance, he might never see Holo 
again. He quickly ran down the dark alley — stumbling a few times, but always moving forward. He crossed the wide road and entered 
another alley, heading west. 

The commotion continued, but his opponent could not afford to make noise for long lest they alert the town guard. 

He continued running, sprinting again across the main road, and heading down another alley. He needed only to turn right, then left 
on the next main road, to reach the Milone Company. 

“Just one? There should be two!” 

Lawrence heard the voice come from be hin d him . Had Holo been captured? Did she escape? If she’d escaped, that was fine. No 
— he hoped desperately that it was so. 

He jumped onto the moonlit boulevard and turned immediately left. Soon he heard voices behind him . “There he is!” 

Ignoring them, he sprinted with all his strength, hurling himself against the gates of the Milone Company’s loading area. 
“I’mLawrence — I came earlier today! Help! I’m being pursued!” 

Wakened into action by the commotion, the men on duty opened the iron gate. 

Immediately after Lawrence disappeared behind it, a group of men carrying wooden staves rushed up to the gate. 

“Wait, you! Give that man to us!” said one of them, hitting the gate with his stave. The men began trying to use lbrce to pull the gate 

open. 

But those who held the gate closed on the opposite side were used to long days of loading and unloading. The gate would not open 
so easily 

A bearded man on the far side of middle age emerged from within the company building. “Scum!” he roared. “Whose house do 
you think this is? It is the Milone Company’s Pazzio branch, owned by the honorable Marquis Milone, recognized by His Grace, the thirty- 
third Archduke ofRaondille! 

Anyone within these walls is a guest of the Marquis! Know that when you strike these gates, you strike His Grace’s throne!” 
Cowed by the man’s grand speech, the attackers faltered. Just then, the whistle of the city guard sounded. 

The men seemed to realize this was their chance to escape. They soon scattered. 

Within the gates, everything was still for a while. At length, the sounds of footfells and guard whistles faded, and the man who’d 
delivered the impressive speech finally spoke up again. 

“That’s quite a commotion so late at night. What’s going on here?” 

“My humblest apologies, sir. I offer my deepest gratitude for your sanctuary.” 

“Save your thanks for the Grand Marquis of Milone. What did they want?” 

“I expect they were from the Medio Company. Undoubtedly they are displeased with the deal I’ve struck with your company.” 
“Oh ho. You’re a merchant who’ll take risks. I haven’t seen many of your kind lately.” 

Lawrence wiped the sweat from his forehead and s mile d. “It's my partner that’s the reckless one.” 

“Must be rough.” 

“I don’t want to t hin k about it, but that same partner may have been captured. Would it be possible for me to speak with the 
branch manager, Sir Marheit?” 

“We’re a foreign company. Raids and arson are a tact of life for us. He’s already been contacted,” said the man with a heart) laugh. 
It drove home to Lawrence how formidable the man who ran this operation must be. 

Perhaps they really would be able to guarantee his safety. 




Uncertainty swirled in his mind, but Lawrence soon composed himself He would get them to guarantee not only his safety, but his 
profit, too. 

His pride as a merchant and his debt to Holo, who’d taken such a risk for him , demanded no less. 

Lawrence took a deep breath. 

“Anyway, come inside, will you? Even wine gets better with time,” said the man. Lawrence, thinking about Holo as he was, found it 
hard to calm him self 

Still, the old man was used to situations like this, and seeing Lawrence’s agitated state, he offered some consolation. “In any case, if 
your partner’s all right, he’ll come here, eh? As long as you give us Iris name and description, we’ll shelter him even if the Church itself 
comes after him !” 

It was an exaggeration, but it put Lawrence at ease. 

“My thanks. Surely.. .no, without question she’ll come. Her name is Holo. She’s a small girl, and wears a hood over her head.” 

“A girl, eh? Is she a beauty?” 

Lawrence understood that the man was asking in order to ease his fears, so he s mile d and answered. “Of ten people, all of them 
would turn to look at her.” 

“Ha-ha-ha! That’s something to look forward to, then,” laughed (he big man heartily, and he led Lawrence into the company 
building. 



“Eight or nin e out of ten of them will be Medio men.” 

Although he had probably just been awakened, Marheit’s manner was no different than it had been earlier in the day as he skipped 
the pleasantries. 

“I agree. They have discovered that I came to you for assistance with my plan for the silver coin and are trying to stop us.” 
Lawrence didn’t want his agitation to be obvious, but he couldn’t help worrying about Holo as he talked. Holo being who she was, 
he thought there was a chance she’d escaped, but it was best to assume the worst. In any case, he needed guarantees of both Iris and 
Holo’s safety as last as he could get them. 

And for that, he needed the Milone Company. 

“I believe my companion may have been captured. If so, it seems obvious to me that negotiations will be impossible. Will the 
Milone lend its aid?” asked Lawrence, only avoiding leaning over the table with effort. Marheit seemed deep in thought and did not lace 
Lawrence. 

Finally he looked up, slowly. 

“You say your companion may have been captured?” 

“Yes.” 

“I see. After the commotion here, I sent some of my men to follow them Urey reported seeing a girl taken, apparently against her 

will” 

Despite more than half-expecting Marheit’s words, Lawrence felt them grab hold of his heart and shake him desperately. 

He swallowed Iris shock and managed to get some words out. “That is probably my companion, Holo. She acted as a decoy so I 
could make it here.” 

“I see. But what would make them want to capture your partner?” 

Lawrence had to almost physically restrain himself from shouting. He couldn’t afford to lose his temper in the presence of a man 
like Marheit. “I expect it’s because we joined with your company in trying to thwart their plans.” 

Marheit’s countenance remained impassive in spite of Lawrence’s heated response. He stared down at the table and appeared 
deep in thought. 

Lawrence, distressed, couldn’t help bouncing his leg impatiently. He was about to jump up from the chair and begin shouting when 
Marheit spoke again. 

“It’s a bit strange, though, don’t you think?” 

“What’s strange?!” demanded Lawrence, finally jumping out of his chair, causing Marheit to blink rapidly for a moment before 
regaining his composure. 

Marheit reached his hand out to his distressed visitor. “Please calm yourself Something is strange about all t his .” 

“What’s strange about it? Just as your company was able to easily check up on Zheren, it was simple for the Medio Company to 
see if anybody was interfering with their plan!” 

“...True, given that their headquarters are here...” 

“So what is strange?” 

“Indeed, I understand now. This truly is strange,” said Marheit. Lawrence had no choice but to hear him out. “I was t hin kin g , how 
did they come to realize that you were conspiring with our company?” 

“Surely because I came here frequently. Also, if they noticed that you’d started collecting trenni silver, all they’d have to do is put 
two and two together.” 

“That is the strange part. You’re a traveling merchant, after all — visiting us several times to negotiate is entirely natural.” 

“But if they linked that to your company’s interest in trenni silver and the tact that I’m the one Zheren contacted...” 

“No, it’s still strange.” 

“Why?” 

Lawrence did not understand. Impatience colored his voice. “Naturally, the point at which we started gathering trenni silver was 




after we finished negotiating with you. Consider this, Mr. Lawrence: ‘I cannot say how it will happen, but if you collect trenni silver your 
profit is guaranteed.’ We certainly wouldn’t do anything based on that alone, would we?” 

‘T-true 

“The feet that we are indeed collecting trenni silver means we understand the entirety of this opportunity. Undoubtedly the Medio 
Company also knows this. There’s simply no reason to take you as hostages.” 

“Surely you don’t mean — ” 

Marheit nodded, his face expressing sad regret. “I do. We already have all the information we need to turn a profit. What happens 
to you now is not our concern.” 

Feeling dizzy, Lawrence listed to one side. It was true. Lawrence was a single traveling merchant; no one was looking out for him . 

“I hope you will understand how difficult it is for me to say this. But we’ve already invested a significant amount of capital based on 
the information you brought us. Hie profit will be immense. If we must choose between bearing your grudge or giving up the return, 
then... Marheit sighed. “I’m sorry, but I must choose the former,” he said quietly. “StilL..” 

Lawrence didn’t hear what Marheit said after that. In some small comer of his mind, he wondered if this was what it fell like to 
meet with bankruptcy. 

His arms, legs — indeed, his entire body — felt frozen. He wasn’t even sure if he was still breathing. 

He was now, as of this moment, abandoned by the Milone Company. 

Which meant Holo had also been abandoned; Holo, who’d given herself up to let him escape believing that Lawrence would be 
able to negotiate her rescue with the Milone Company. 

Lawrence recalled the expression on her lace when she spoke of returning to the north country. 

When hostages had outlived their useftilness, their subsequent prospects were clear. Men were sold to slave ships and women to 
brothels. 

Although Holo had her wolf ears and tail, there were rich eccentrics who collected such “demon-possessed” girls. Undoubtedly the 
Medio Company knew one or two such collectors. 

Lawrence thought of Holo being sold — he thought of how a wealthy, demon-obsessed collector would treat such a girL 
No. He would not allow it. 

Lawrence straightened him self in the chair and immediately began t hin kin g . He had to save her. 

“Please wait,” he said after several moments. “If your company has come to this conclusion, surely the other side lias done so as 

weft” 

The Medio Company wasn’t run by fools. They had gone after Lawrence and his companion and had dispatched many men to do 
it, even risking confrontation with the town guard. 

“Yes. That is what struck me as so strange. I hadn’t finis hed speaking, you see — if the need arises, I will bear the grudge that you 
would harbor toward the company.” 

Lawrence now remembered that Marheit had ended his statement with a “still” and hung his head in red- faced shame. 

“I can see that your companion is very precious to you. But letting your emotions dull your t hin kin g is misplacing your priorities.” 
“My apologies.” 

‘Not at all — if my wife were in danger, I, too, would likely find it impossible to calm myself,” Marheit said, smiling. 

Lawrence saw this and bowed his head again, though his heart thudded at the word “wife.” He realized that if Holo were a mere 
traveling companion, he would not be so upset, and Holo herself would not have sacrificed herself to help him escape. 

“Back to the problem at hand. then. Our opponent is a canny company that will not easily be thwarted. You and your partner have 
no theoretical value to them, yet they’ve targeted you — there must be a reason. Do you have any idea what it might be?” 

Lawrence did not have any such idea. 

When he thought the situation through, though, he realized that there must be some special reason for them to be captured. 

He mulled it over. 

There was only one possibility. 

“No, that can’t be ..” 

“Have you thought of something?” 

Lawrence had immediately dismissed the possibility when it first occurred to him. It simply couldn’t be — yet it was the only fifing he 
could t hin k of 

“The profit before us is almost unimaginable. We need only realize it. If you’ve thought of something, no matter how trivial, please 
tell me.” 

Marheit’ s request was entirely reasonable, but Lawrence’s realization was not something to be shared lightly. 

Lawrence thought about Holo, who was undeniably not human. Most people would call her a demon. Such “demons” were either 
hidden away at home or given over to the Church. Neither was any way to live. Once the Church cast its eye on such a per son, he or she 
would certainly be executed. 

Holo was indistinguishable from such a possessed individual The Medio Company could use her to blackmail the Milone 
Company. 

If the Milone Company did not want it revealed to the Church that they’d had dealings with someone possessed by a demon, they 
would have to withdraw. 

If it came to an Inquisition, the Medio Company could righteously accuse the Milone Company and Lawrence of having entered 
into an evil contract with a demonic entity. It went without saying that Holo would be burned at the stake. 




Yet Lawrence still found himself skeptical. 

Who had discovered Holo’s wolfs ears and tail, and when? 

Given Holo’s normal appearance, it wasn’t something easily discernible. He believed that no one except himself knew the truth of 
her identity. 

“Mr. Lawrence,” said Marheit, putting an end to Lawrence’s musings. “Have you thought of something?” 

Lawrence couldn’t help nodding at Marheit’s patient question, which meant he would now have to divulge the truth. But if the real 
reason for their pursuit was something else, he would have exposed Holo’s secret for naught. 

In the worse case, the Milone Company could turn the tables on the Medio Company by accusing them of using a demon girl to 
blackmail them. 

If that happened, there would be no hope for Holo. 

Marheit gazed seriously across the table. 

Lawrence saw no avenue of escape. 

But they were interrupted. 

“Excuse me,” said a Milone Company representative, entering the room. 

“What is it?” 

“We just received a letter. It regards our current situation.” 

The employee held out a neatly sealed envelope. Marheit took it and flipped it over. The sender’s name was missing, but it did have 
a destination. 

“ ‘To the wolf ..and the forest in which it resides?’ ” 

In that instant, Lawrence realized he’d been right. 

“I’m sorry, but might I look at that letter first?” 

Marheit looked at Lawrence dubiously but at length nodded and handed the envelope over. 

Lawrence thanked him and, taking a deep breath, broke the seaL 

There was a letter inside and a bit of what might have been Hob’s brown fur. 

The letter was brief 

“We have the wolf The Church's doors are always open. If you don’t want the wo I fin your home, shut your doors and keep your 
family inside.” 

There was no longer any room for doubt. 

Lawrence returned the letter to Marheit. “My companion. Hob, is the wolf-god of the harvest,” he said in a wrung-out voice. 
Marheit’s eyes opened as wide as they ever got. 




Chapter 5 



Marheit was everything one would expect from a trader who’d opened a branch in a foreign land. 

Though initially shocked by Lawrence’s revelation, he soon calmed himself and began to think the situation through. He uttered not 
so much as a single word of blame for Holo, who’d been captured, or Lawrence, who’d made his escape. He was entirely focused on 
protecting the interests of the Milone Company and extracting any available profit from the situation. 

“There’s no doubting the threat implied by this letter. They wish you, Mr. Lawrence, to know that if you don’t want your partner 
given up to the Church you must stay inside and not interfere.” 

“They must want us to keep out of their way until their plan for the trenni silver is concluded, but that doesn’t mean they won’t still 
turn Holo in when they’re through.” 

“Quite right. Furthemiore, we’ve already invested quite heavily in the coin. Pulling out now means our losses would be huge 
because the trenni is guaranteed to depreciate.” 

In such a situation, there was essentially no choice at alL 

They could sit and await ruin, or they could strike. 

The former was hardly an option. 

“I suppose this means we have no choice but to strike first,” said Lawrence. 

Marheit took a deep breath and nodded. ‘However, merely rescuing your companion won’t be enough. Even if we hide her here, 
once the Church gets involved, we’ll have no choice but to roll over and let them have their way She can’t hide as long as she’s in this city.” 

“What if we flee the city entirely?” 

“It’s a great plain as far as the eye can see, and even if you reached another city, there’s a chance you could be extradited. Then 
there’d be no hope for you at alL” 

They were cornered. Even meek compliance with the Medio Company’s demands would probably still result in Holo being 
delivered to the Church. 

There was no reason for them to avoid ruining a foreign company — in fact, the fewer competitors they had, the better. 

Yet striking first carried with it a host of difficulties. No — “difficult” was the wrong word. Every possibility available to them was the 
height of recklessness. 

“Is there nothing we can do?” mused Marheit as if taking to him self “At this rate, we won’t even be able to avoid unfounded 
accusations, to say nothing of actually making a profit.” 

Lawrence felt as if he were sitting on a carpet of needles as he listened to Marheit speak, but he bowed his head and listened — he 
would do whatever it took to brin g about a favorable result. Merchants lacked the pride of knights or nobility. They were prepared to lick a 
stranger’s boots if it meant co ming out ahead. 

So Lawrence did not hear sarcasm or scorn in Marheit’s words, simply analysis. He had clearly summarized the situation they now 

faced. 

‘You’re saying we need some kind of card we can play against them” 

‘You could put it that way. But even if we invest more capital, it’s meager compared with what they stand to gain from trenni 
silver. So the problem can’t be solved with money. We could report their abduction of your companion to the Church, but that would 
cause problems for you, and you might even deliver an unfavorable testimony about our company.” 

“That... is quite possible.” 

There was no point in lying, so Lawrence told the truth. He simply couldn’t cut Holo loose, but if he did, unquestionably that would 
solve the problem 

Marheit was undoubtedly aware of that fact. If it came down to it, he would certainly try to persuade Lawrence to take that option, 
though unsuccessfully. Lawrence knew he would choose death with Holo first. 

Though naturally he hoped he wouldn’t have to. 

This left him no alternative but to come up with some kind of plan to alter this indefensible position. 

“All I can t hin k of,” Lawrence inteijected, “is to finish negotiating the trenni silver deal and use the resulting profit as a trump card.” 

Marheit's eyes went wide at Lawrence’s proposal. He didn’t want to lose the Milone Company’s profit — that almost-magical 
return made possible by exploiting a depreciating currency — any more than Lawrence wanted to lose Holo. 

Such opportunities came around only once in a great while. 

That was what made Lawrence’s proposed trump card so potent. If it came down to it, the Medio Company would happily turn 
Holo over rather than lose the profit. 

Still — or perhaps because of that — Marheit covered his eyes in worry. Losing that opportunity would be Ike losing a child. 

This magical trading partner could brin g them staggering gains. 

That partner was none other than the King of the Kingdom of Trenni. 

“The greatest gain that can be extracted from trenni silver is securing special privileges from the king. According to our research, 
the finances of the royal family are in decline. In other words, if this deal succeeds, we’ll have substantial favor with the royal family. 




Abandoning that. . 

“Abandoning it for my companion makes no sense at all,” said Lawrence. 

“Are you suggesting that they purchase it from us?” 

Lawrence nodded. He had heard of deals on this scale before but had never been involved with one. He had no assurances that it 
could actually be 

done, but his long experience as a merchant suggested that it could. 

“If it comes down to a choice between destroying the Milone Company or obtaining special privileges from the king, perhaps we 
could simply have them pay the equivalent value.” 

Lawrence was speaking off the top of his head, but it seemed plausible. 

The idea that you could make money from a depreciating currency by collecting as much of it as possible was predicated on the 
presupposition that the same Kingdom of Trenni that min ted the coins would be willing to buy up the currency. 

They would do so because after recalling the currency, they could melt it down. They would then mint more coins with a lower 
silver content, resulting in more physical currency. If ten coins became t hir teen coins, that meant a gain of three coins. 

This was the best way to increase immediately available fiinds, but it hurt the nation’s credibility, which would result in a loss over 
the long term For the royal family to be willing to do this implied that it was in d ire fin ancial straits. What was worse, if they didn’t have 
enough of the crucial coin, diluting it wouldn’t create the extra funds the nation needed for breathing room 

The Medio Company was trying to assemble a large amount of trenni silver to exploit this opportunity. Depending on the 
circumstances, they might attempt to collect all of the trenni silver circulating in the marketplace. 

Then they would go to the king, and say something like “If you will agree to the price we set and give us certain considerations, we 
will sell you the currency.” 

With a few exceptions, a king was a king only because his fortune or lands were greater than those of other nobility — and because 
he had garnered the support of the population who did not question Iris legitimacy. But simply being the monarch did not guarantee perfect 
control over the lands of the kingdom The royal family could not simply control assets ad minis tered by other nobility. 

Thus, the assets of royalty were not appreciably more significant than those of the various nobles. What made them special were 
the assorted duties that fell under royal prerogative: authority over mines, mints, tariffs, market administration, and so on. While such 
authority didn’t brin g with it automatic gains, if one knew how to manipulate the authority, it was like shaking money out of a tree. 

In all likelihood, the Medio Company wanted control over one of these domains. Precisely which one was unclear, but if whatever 
they were planning was successful, they stood to gain a major advantage for their business. 

What Lawrence brought to the Milone Company was a proposal to snatch this opportunity away. They aimed to collect more 
trenni silver than the Medio Company and negotiate with the king first. 

From the king’s perspective, dealing with two companies competing for the same privileges would be troublesome. Thus, if he were 
to deal with anyone, it would be with a sole company 

If the Milone Company could conclude the negotiations first, it would be impossible for the Medio Company to secure any 
privileges. 

Those privileges were entirely unique. 

For the Medio Company’s part, if said privileges were something that could be simply purchased, they would pay any price. The 
Milone Company was no different, but held by the scruff of the neck as they now were, they would have to be content with moderate 
compensation. 

“Still. .if they play their card, it won’t just destroy this branch — we’ll be burned at the stake. Will they deal with us?” 

Now was the time for nerve. Lawrence leaned forward and murmured, “Surely the king would be troubled to leam that the 
company with which he was dealing was to be burned as heretics.” 

Marheit gasped at the realization. The Church’s authority surpassed even national borders. Its power was si gnific ant even within 
mighty empires, to say nothing of small kingdoms like Tren ni. 

And in any case, the king of Trenni was having fin ancial difficulties. The last thing he would want was trouble with the Church. 

“If we can sign a contract with the king, the Medio Company won’t be able to touch us. Even if they try to turn us over to the 
Church, the king will not be pleased with the company that brought such trouble down upon him” 

“I see. Still, they won’t just stay silent. They might just try to brin g us down with them” 

‘True.” 

“So in addition to the price for the privileges we’ll hand over, we’ll be demanding your companion.” 

“Yes.” 

Marheit stroked his chin, his free expressing admiration. He looked down at the table. Lawrence knew what Marheit was going to 
say next. He took a deep breath and gathered Iris wits in anticipation of his answer. This unique plan could break the deadlock and brin g 
both Lawrence and the 

Milone Company great profit. 

But it had its difficulties. 

If Lawrence couldn’t overcome those difficulties, he would either have to cut Holo loose or be burned alongside her by the Church. 
The former would not happen — not ever. 

Marheit looked up. 

“Hypothetically, it’s a sound strategy. But I’m sure you realize it will be nearly impossible to execute.” 

“You’re talking about how we’ll surpass the Medio Company, yes?” 




Marheit put his hand to his chin and nodded. 

Lawrence was prepared for this. “As far as I can tell, the Medio Company has not yet collected a si gnific ant amount of silver.” 
“And your basis for saying so is...?” 

“My basis is that they didn’t immediately turn Holo over to the Church upon capturing her. If they already had enough silver, they 
would’ve gone directly to the Church in order to destroy us. Instead, they’re trying to prevent us from moving, probably because they’re 
concerned that in the time it would take for the Church to conclude our trial and sentencing, we would reach an agreement with the king. To 
put it another way, they think you’ve already collected enough silver to begin negotiations. It shows they have no confidence in their own 
position.” 

Marheit listened with eyes closed. Lawrence took a breath and continued. 

“Also, I don’t think the Medio Company wants anyone to know they are collecting trenni silver — this helps them take advantage 
of the king’s weak position. From the standpoint of a nobleman dealing with the king, it shows consideration for the king’s position and 
their relationship in the future to say that he just happened to have a large amount of silver on hand, no matter how transparent the lie. But 
to have people like Zheren target traveling merchants and suck us into the deal, I think their aim is to begin by having merchants gather the 
silver for them, then buy it up at the opportune moment. Even if they suspect Zheren’s motives, if someone’s willing to buy the currency, 
they’ll be happy to selL This is all speculation on my part, but I don’t t hin k I’m wrong. If the Medio Company started buying trenni silver in 
bulk, every company in the area would notice the strange trend in the coin, and we’d be for from their only problem” 

Marheit nodded slowly. “Given all that, this may be possible,” he murmured reluctantly, his eyes still closed. 

The speculation was plausible, but it was still mere speculation. Perhaps they hadn’t turned in Holo because they didn’t wish to 
provoke the main branch of the Milone Company. 

For whatever reason, the Medio Company was hesitating. 

Given that hesitation, Lawrence and his partners had no choice but to take advantage. 

“All right, we’ll assume the Medio Company is not prepared to move. Based on that assumption, what action do you suggest, Mr. 
Lawrence?” 

Lawrence took those words at lace value. He couldn’t afford to show any wea kn ess. 

He took a deep breath and spoke. “I will find Holo, rescue her, and we’ll run until the negotiations are finis hed.” 

Marheit s breath caught. “You can’t be serious.” 

“Escape may be impossible, but we’ll buy you some time. Use it to gather as much silver as you can and conclude the negotiation.” 
“It’s not possible.” 

“So you’re going to turn Holo in, then? I’ll be forced to publicly denounce the Milone Company.” 

It was an unmistakable threat. 

Marheit’s mouth gaped at Lawrence’s near-betrayal, stunned. The feet remained, though, that even if they chose to sacrifice Holo, 
the Milone Company had a contract with her and Lawrence. If it came to a Church trial, the company had perhaps a four- in-ten chance to 
be judged blameless, and even them heavy fines would be levied. It went without saying that Lawrence would testify against the Milone 
Company Marheit agonized. 

Lawrence took the opportunity to push. 

“With the Milone Company’s help, we should be able to escape for a day or two. She is a wolf spirit, after all. If she sets her 
strength to escape, none will be able to catch her.” 

Lawrence had no idea if that was true, of course, but it sounded convincing. 

“Mm...hm...” 

“Holo was caught because she acted as a decoy. If we hadn’t had a destination and sought only escape, that would’ve been easy. 
Might I ask how long your company will need to assemble sufficient coin to command the kin g ’s attention?” 

“...How much time, you say?” 

Though Marheit appeared overwhelmed by Lawrence’s bravado, Iris min d was racing at the possibilities. His gaze flicked around 
the room, and it was clear he was deep in thought. Lawrence thought that if he could rescue Holo cleanly and the Milone Company was 
willing to help, he’d be able to stay on the run for an even two days. 

Pazzio was an old city. Hiere were many buildings, and the roads and alleyways were complex. If one wanted to hide, there were 
innumerable places to do so. 

Assuming he was run ning from only the Medio Company, Lawrence believed he could stay hidden. 

Marheit opened his eyes. “If we send a rider to Trenni now, he’ll make it there by sunset if all goes well. Assuming we can 
commence negotiation immediately, he’ll return here by dawn tomorrow. Longer negotiation will lengthen his stay.” 

“Can you send a rider immediately? You haven’t confirmed the amount of silver you have.” 

‘There’s a limit to how much coin we can house, so we can place a rough estimate on how much we’ll be able to collect. As long 
as we have that much by the day of the actual transaction, we’ll be fine.” 

Even if they negotiated optimistically, there would be no problem as long as the currency was assembled by the day of the 
settlement. 

The idea was sound enough in theory, but it took a big merchant to actually accomplish such reckless dealing. Additionally, they 
had to be able to offer enough capital that the king would think he couldn’t afford to depend solely on Iris own resources. Using a mere 
approximation of available monies to carry out such negotiations was the height of recklessness, but the very feet that Marheit was 
proposing the idea lent it credence, Lawrence thought. 

“We wanted to negotiate only after we discovered who was backing the Medio Company, which would reveal their funding. Then 




we’d be able to both preempt their deal and estimate our own. But we’ve neither time to t hin k nor to look for more information.” 

Though he knew it was impossible, Lawrence worked the problem around in his head and came up with nothing. He sighed as if to 
voice his powerlessness. 

He had to keep looking ahead. He straightened him self and regarded Marheit. 

“Can you reach a last settlement with the king?” 

Lawrence would have to rim whether or not negotiations were speedy. He was powerless to change the situation but would feel 
better knowing. 

“If the Milone Company wills it, negotiations will be brief” 

Lawrence couldn’t help chuckling bitterly, but Marheit certainly sounded reliable. 

He reached out with his right hand. “I imagine you know where Holo is, then?” he asked, as though inquiring about the weather. 
“We are the Milone Company.” 

Lawrence shook Marheit’ s hand, glad to have chosen the right company to deal with. 

“Assassination ofour employees and arson of our facilities are facts of daily life for us. That’s why we make it a point to know the 
city better than anyone. We have contingencies for any emergency. Even if a legion of knights should storm the city walls, we’ll survive. But 
we do have a rival” 

“The Church?” 

“Indeed. Hie Church, like us, lias a far-reaching presence. Their front-line missionaries are especially like us in this regard, 
exceeding even our abilities. You’re aware of this, no doubt.” 

‘They are ubiquitous and elusive, yes.” 

“Should the Church launch a search in earnest, you must not run before t hin kin g — stay hidden in one place. Of course we hope to 
have the deal concluded by then. The password will be ‘Pireon, numai. ’ ” 

‘Two great gold coins, then?” 

“It seemed auspicious. I shall pray for your success.” 

“I understand. Your hopes will be well met.” 

Lawrence shook Marheits hand again, then climbed into the cart. The cart was completely unremarkable, the kind you’d see 
anywhere, but it had a roof that made it impossible to see who was riding within. Hiis was not, however, to help Holo escape, but rather to 
deliver Lawrence to Holo. In fact, it was less about delivering Lawrence than it was about hiding his whereabouts. 

Agents of the Milone Company had caught wind of the commotion the previous day and had followed the thugs without knowing at 
the time what was going oa Just as they’d learned where Holo was being held, they assumed that the Medio Company had people 
watching them as welL There was no such thing as too much caution. 

Merchants would try to deceive each other just as soon as look at one another — all the more so when they weren ’t looking. 
Together with another Milone employee that was riding along, Lawrence dismantled the floorboards of the carriage and looked 
down at the slowly passing cobblestones. 

“Once I’ve descended, I should touch the right-hand wall and go forward, right?” 

‘Your destination is at the end. If all goes well a hatch will open above you. Should you hear the word ‘racche,’ please wait for the 
escort to arrive. If you hear ‘peroso,’ though, make your escape with Holo along the planned route immediately.” 

“The good outcome and the bad, eh?” said Lawrence. 

“Easy to understand, isn’t it?” 

Lawrence gave a wry grin and nodded his comprehension. “We’ll be there soon.” 

Immediately after the Milone employee spoke, the horseman on the driver’s seat kn ocked on the wall It was the stop signaL 
The carriage braked to the sound of neighing horses as the driver shouted angrily at someone. Lawrence jumped down through the 
hole left by the missing floorboards and pushed aside a large stone at his feet. Beneath the stone was a dark hole. Lawrence jumped into it 
immediately and landed on his feet with a splash. Having co nfir med their passengers safe drop-off, his companions above slid the stone 
back into place, returning the passage to total darkness. 

A few moments later, the carriage resumed its advance as though nothing had happened. 

“I’m surprised they’re so prepared,” said Lawrence, half shocked as he put his hand to the wall on his right and walked slowly 
forward. 

The tunnel had once been used to carry water, but since water pipes now connected the marketplace, it was no longer used. That’s 
as much as Law rence knew about it, but the Milone Company’s knowledge of the system was complete, and they had dug unauthorized 
extensions to the tunnels to connect various buildings. 

The Church also excelled at such subterfuge. It was said they would use the digging of graves as a pretense to construct secret 
underground passageways to be used for spying on heretics and evading taxation. The Church was powerful which meant it had many 
enemies. Escape routes were always useful 

Large towns that housed main branches of the Chinch or companies like Milone were so riddled with passageways that they were 
scarcely different from fell catacombs where demons lived. It was like making your living on a spider’s web, a merchant had once said to 
Lawrence. 

Lawrence now understood the terrifying truth of that statement. 

The tunnel was dark and clammy but still better than some of the alleys he’d walked down, which meant it was well- maintained. 

This reassured Lawrence. The Milone Company was powerfuL 




“Ah, here it is.” 

Lawrence heard the echoes of his splashing footfalls and realized he’d reached the end. He reached out and soon felt the wall 

A traveling merchant was used to being attacked by wild dogs on moonless roads. Lawrence was confident that if the worst 
happened and he had to run down this tunnel, he’d be able to find the wall 

Above and to the right, there was supposedly the warehouse of a general store with connections to the Medio Company. This was 
where Holo was being held. Directly above Lawrence was their temporary base of operations, and apparently they’d secretly constructed 
a path between the two. 

The degree of preparation was c hilling , but it might also have been built to facilitate the company’s expansion into other lands, 
Lawrence re min ded him self 

A distant bell sounded from somewhere. It was the signal to open the marketplace. It was also the signal to begin the plan, so 
undoubtedly all hell was breaking loose above him If they couldn’t free Holo in the time between now and the bell that signaled the 
be ginning of work, they would be in real trouble — the general goods merchant would return to his warehouse. 

He might have been a Medio protege, but bills came due whether or not he was housing a hostage. Commerce never stopped, after 
all. 

The problem was the number of people guarding Holo. If their opponents used too many people, it would be obvious to the Milone 
Company, but if they used too few, it wouldn’t be an effective guard. Lawrence hoped they had allocated people with the intention of 
keeping Holo’s location secret their top priority. 

The more people there were, the worse the fight would be. The attackers wouldn’t be holding ropes and blindfolds, but edged 
weapons and clubs. 

This would further complicate an already difficult situation, and Lawrence desperately wanted to avoid that. 

Lawrence wondered how much time had passed while he’d been thinking. He was calm initially, but his legs now shook enough to 
splash the water around him . He was deeply troubled. He tried to calm his trembling legs, to no avail 

He tried stretching, but it only exacerbated his worry and made his heart pound harder. 

He looked up, hoping the trapdoor above him would open soon. 

Suddenly he froze, stricken with fear. 

Had he come to the wrong place? 

“S-surely not,” he answered him self, making sure that it was the correct dead end. 

Just then, he heard a voice above him . 

“Racche,” it said, immediately followed by the sound of floorboards cracking free of a foundation. 

“Racche,” said the voice again, to which Lawrence said, “Numai!” “Pireon,” came the reply, along with a blaze of light as the 
floorboards slid aside. 

“Holo!” exclaimed Lawrence in spite of him self when he saw her face. 

Unmoved, Holo said something to the person standing next to her. She looked back down at Lawrence. 

“How am I to get down there if you don’t make way?” 

It wouldn’t be wrong to say Holo was her usual self, but when he heard her speak, Lawrence realized he wanted to see her happy 
face and hear her lively voice. 

He did as Holo suggested and stepped aside, waiting for her to descend — yet what filled his heart was not satisfaction at seeing her 
face, but rather disappointment at missing her joyful voice. 

Of course, he knew it was nothing more than wishful t hin kin g and said nothing, but once Holo descended and looked up to receive 
a bundle from above, paying him not the slightest heed, the discontent in his heart grew stronger. 

“What are you daydreaming about? Here, this is for you. Take it, and let’s go.” 

“Wha-oh.” 

Lawrence held the bundle that was shoved at him and headed down the tunnel as if pushed. Something jingled in the bundle they 
must have stolen some valuables to give the appearance of thieves. Soon another person descended from the trapdoor, whereupon it shut. 
The tunnel was completely dark again. That was the signal to move. Lawrence said nothing to Holo and began walking. 

They would turn right at the end of the passage, feeling along the left-hand wall until reaching its end. They would then climb out of 
the tunnel and into the carriage that awaited them there to be taken to another underground passage. 

Walking the tunnel wordlessly, they finally reached then destination. 

Lawrence climbed the ladder that had been prepared and knocked three times against the ceiling. 

If the escort failed to make the rendezvous, they would have to take a different route — but just as the possibility crossed 
Lawrence’s mind, a hole opened in the ceiling, and immediately above it sat the carriage. 

After co nfirming each other’s identities with an exchange of “Pireon,” and “Numai,” Lawrence crawled up into the carriage. 




“Looks like you made it safely,” said the Milone employee as he pulled Holo up. He was understandably surprised to see her wolf 
ears. “Business is full of surprises,” he said with a smile, sliding the large cobblestone back into its original position. 

“There was another with us,” said Lawrence. 

“He’ll be collecting the ladder and emerging elsewhere,” said the employee. “Once he’s delivered the infonnation about those 
Medio rascals to our friends, he’ll leave the city.” 

The almost frightening efficiency was due to their daily execution and refinement of plans and counter plans. Once the employee 
replaced the carriage floorboards, he said a quick “good luck to you” and took Lawrence and Hob’s bundles before exiting the cart. At 
the employee’s signal, the driver started the carriage movin g . So far, everything was going according to plan. 

Everything except for Holo’s reaction, that is. 

“I’m so glad you’re all right,” was all Lawrence could manage. He could say no more to Hob, who sat opposite him, unfolding a 
strip of cloth that had been around her neck in an attempt to cover her ears. 

She only replied after finishing a few adjustments to the fit of her makeshift hood. “It’s good that I’m all right, is it?” 

Lawrence wanted to say yes, but the words caught in his throat. Hob was glaring at him as if she were about to bite his head off 
Perhaps she wasn ’t weft 
“Say my name, then!” 

If she could shout like that, she wasn’t in the condition Lawrence feared. Still, her vehemence made her seem twice her normal size, 
and he flin ched at it. 

“Uh...Holo?” 

“Hob the Wisewolf!” 

It sounded aknost like a threatening growl, but Lawrence had no idea what she was angry about. If she wanted an apology, he was 
ready to apologize a hundred times over. She’d been a decoy for him , after aft 
Or had something happened to her that she couldn’t say? 

“I can remember every single person that’s ever shamed me in my life. And now I must add another name to that list. Yours!” 
Something had happened to her. Still, her anger seemed different from the manner of girls he’d seen in villages that had been taken 
by thugs or brigands. And if he said something foolish, it would only be throwing oil on the fire of her rage. 

Thus the silence grew longer; and perhaps the silence itself began to irk her because she rose from her seat and closed in on 
Lawrence. 

Her white, clenched fists trembled. 

There was nowhere for Lawrence to run. Hob stood directly in front of him. 

Their heads were at the same height, which lent Hob’s level gaze an incredibly penetrating quality. She opened her small fists and 
grabbed the chest of Lawrence’s shirt. Her strength matched her appearance — Lawrence hadn’t ima gin ed her grip would be so weak. 
Again he noticed how long her eyelashes were. 

‘You told me, didn’t you — you told me you’d come for me.” 

Lawrence nodded. 

“And I...I utterly believed that you would come... grrh... just t hin kin g about it is infuriating!” 

Just then, Lawrence came to a sharp realization, as if waking from a dream. 

‘You’re a man, aren’t you? You should’ve been in the front, fighting tooth and nail! But you were in that hole in the ground — you 
let me make a fool of myself — ” 

“But you’re unhurt, right?” asked Lawrence, interrupting her. Hob sneered at him , displeased. 

She hesitated for some time before finally nodding, as if forced to drink something very unpleasant. 

Hob had probably been blindfolded. She may have mistaken whoever came to her aid for Lawrence and said something meant for 
him alone. That was probably why she felt — and blamed him for — such needless shame. 

The realization made Lawrence happy. He knew that if he’d been the one to rescue her, she would have shown the expression he 
longed to see. 

Slowly putting Iris arms around Hob, who was still gripping Iris shirt, he drew her closer. Hob resisted a bit, irritated, but soon 
relented. The once angry- looking ears that were clearly visible underneath her makeshift hood now drooped. A mildly sulky expression 
replaced her original anger. 

Though he might travel the world and amass a great fortune, the one thing Lawrence could never have was right here. 

“I’m glad you’re all right,” he said. 

The eyes that had flashed in anger only a moment earlier threatened to close. Hob nodded, her lips slightly pouting. 

“So long as you carry that wheat with you. I’ll not die.” Hob poked his breast pocket without moving his anns away. ‘Tor a girl, 
there is a kind of suffering no easier than death.” 

Lawrence took Hob’s hand, and Hob drew near to him, resting her elfin on his shoulder. He felt her weight intensely, heavier than 
a burlap sack full of wheat. 

“Heh. I’m so lovely that even human males fall for me. Not that a one of them is fit to be my mate,” said Hob mischievously. 

When she finally released Lawrence, she wore her usual grin. “If they tried to touch me. I’d just re min d them that they might lose a 
limb, or worse — they’d pale at that, oh yes! Hee-hee-hee," she chuckled, her sharp fangs visible behind her pink lips. It was true; anyone 
would falter at such a sight. 

“But there was an exception,” she added, her delight vanishing. This was a new anger, a quiet anger, Lawrence thought. 




“Who do you t hin k was there among those who captured me?” 

Her expression was the height of disgust. She bared her fangs slightly in rage, and Lawrence unconsciously let go of her hand. 

“Who was there?” he asked. 

Who was it who could so enrage Holo? Perhaps someone from her past. 

Holo wrinkled her nose as Lawrence considered. She spoke. 

“It was Yarei You remember him , no doubt.” 

“That -” 

Can’t be, he was going to say — but Lawrence never got that far because something else suddenly occurred to him 
“That’s it! The figure backing the Medio Company is Count Ehrendott!” 

Holo had been ready to vent her spleen at Lawrence, but now her eyes widened in surprise at his outburst. 

“As someone with huge tracts of wheat, he can request payment in whatever coin he wants! And if he could arrange favorable 
duties for Iris wheat, it would be like a gift from heaven to the Medio Company, the count, or even the villagers! Of course! And that 
explains why there was someone there who knew you were a wolf!” 

Holo looked at Lawrence blankly, but Lawrence didn’t notice her as he leapt up to the window that faced the carriage drivers. He 
opened the small window, and one of them leaned down to listen. 

“Did you hear what I just said?” 

“I did indeed.” 

“The one backing the Medio Company is Count Ehrendott. Hie count and the merchants that deal with his wheat are the reason 
silver is being collected. Please inform Mr. Marheit.” 

“It shall be done,” he said, then jumped immediately off the carriage and took off running. 

Lawrence imagined that the horses carrying the negotiators bound for Treimi had already left, but if the negotiations were at all 
prolonged, they would be able to propose additional conditions. Knowing the source of the Medio Company’s silver meant it might be 
possible for a company with the reputation and resources of Milone to snatch the deal right out from under them 

If he’d figured this out earlier, perhaps Holo’s capture could have been avoided and this entire transaction could have gone much 
more smoothly. 

It frustrated Lawrence to think about it, but there was nothing to do about it now. It was good they’d discovered the truth when 
they had. 

“...I do not follow you.” 

Lawrence returned to his seat, anns folded as the possibilities raced through his head, when he heard Holo’s complaint. That’s 
when he realized he’d cut her off mid-sentence. 

“Explaining it all could take some time. Let’s just say that your information was the key to figuring everything out.” 

“Huh.” 

Lawrence knew that it would not take much effort on Holo’s part to understand what was going on, but she didn’t seem inclined to 

bother. 

Holo simply nodded her head, uninterested, and closed her eyes. 

She seemed irritated at the sudden change of subject. 

Lawrence chided him self for finding her sulking as charming as he did. 

It might have been a trap she’d set for him , after all, to demonstrate how irritated she was at the interruption. 

“I’m sorry I interrupted you,” said Lawrence by way of an honest apology. 

She opened a single eye briefly to glance at him , then brushed off his apology with a small “It’s nothing.” 

Undaunted, Lawrence continued speaking. Holo was either childish or cunning — one extreme or the other. 

“Yarei should still be locked away in the storehouse for the harvest festival If he’s in the city, that means he’s involved in the deaL 
He’s acquainted with the merchants that buy wheat from the village, and the village leader hirsts him to do the dealing. Also, the bulk of the 
wheat sales are conducted immediately after the festival” said Lawrence. 

Her eyes closed, Holo seemed to consider this, finally opening both eyes at length. Her mood appeared to have brightened. 

“He must have heard my name from that boy Zheren. That Yarei was wearing clothes far too fine for any village and thought rather 
hi gh ly of himself ” 

“He must be deeply connected to the Medio Company. Did you talk to him?” 

“Just a bit,” said Holo. She rid herself of the last of her anger with a sigh. Perhaps it was the recollection of her conversation with 
Yarei that had angered her so. 

Lawrence wondered what he could have possibly said to her. Holo had no love for the villagers, that was true enough, but she had 
decided to leave. 

He didn’t t hin k her grudge went any further than that. 

As Lawrence pondered these things, Holo spoke. 

“I don’t know how many years I lived there. Maybe as many as there are hairs on my tail” 

Holo’s tail swished beneath her coat. 

“I am Holo the Wisewolf In order to provide the greatest harvest, there were years I had to let the land rest, so there were seasons 
of meager harvest, too. Still, the fields I lent my aid should’ve been more productive than others over time.” 

This was the second time she’d explained this, but Lawrence nodded for her to continue. 

‘The villagers did treat me as the god of the harvest — but not out of respect. It was akin to a desire to control me. Do they not 




chase after the person who cuts the last sheaf of wheat, after all? Do they not bind him with rope?” 

“I’ve heard they lock the harvester away in the storehouse for a week with treats to eat and all the tools they’ll use in the following 

year.” 

“The pork and duck were tasty, ’tis true.” 

It was an amusing reflection. The tales were apparently true — tales of people locked up lor a week only to be released with no 
recollection of having eaten all the food. And the perpetrator sat right in front of him. 

The vague fear that accompanied these stories now possessed a concrete form; the image of Ho to in her wolf form, devouring duck 
and pork. 

“Still,” said Holo seriously as she set out to explain the reason for her anger. Lawrence composed him self 

“What do you think Yarei said to me?” Holo bit her lip, momentarily at a loss for words. She rubbed the comer of her eye with her 
finger and continued. “He said he heard my name from Zheren, and it made him wonder. I... it is pathetic, but I was so happy to hear that...” 

Holo’s head hung low, and tears overflowed from her eyes. “Then he told me that the days when they had to worry about my 
mood were over. That they need no longer fear my fickle nature. That since the Church was already after me, they should just hand me 
over and be done with the old ways for good!” 

Lawrence knew about Count Ehrendott’s exchanges with natural philosophers and how he’d introduced new agricultural 
techniques to boost crop yield. 

Even the most devout prayer must eventually show results, or the spirit or god responsible will be discarded, and people will begin 
to find the idea of depending on their own efforts much more appealing. If new forming methods brought prosperity where prayer Med, it 
was not surprising that the people would start to believe that the god or spirit to whom they prayed was capricious, unreliable. 

Lawrence him self sometimes ascribed the vicissitudes of fortune to some inscrutable god. 

But the girl before him was not what came to min d. 

She had said her reason for staying in the village was that she got along with the villagers, that her friend from long ago had asked 
her to see to the harvest. She had always meant for the fields to prosper. But after she oversaw the land for centuries, people began 
denying her existence, and now to hear that they wished to be rid of her — how must that feel? 

Tears fell freely from Holo’s eyes. Her lace showed a mixture of frustration and sorrow. 

She’d said she hated befog alone. When a god forced people to worship it, perhaps it was only out of loneliness. 

If Holo’s predicament elicited such wild- eyed notions in Lawrence, it was hardly surprising it also made him want to wipe her tears 

away. 

“It doesn’t really matter, in the end. I want to return to the northland, so I must leave one way or another. If they have no love for 
me. I’ll simply kick the dust from my hind legs and leave. ’Twill be a cleaner break that way. StilL . .1 can’t just leave it like this.” 

She seemed to have stopped crying, but Lawrence could still hear her s niffing as he stroked her head gently. He smiled as broadly 
as he could manage and spoke. 

“I — no, we — are merchants. As long as we profit, we triumph. We laugh when money comes in, and cry only in bankruptcy. And 
we will laugh " he said. 

Holo glanced up momentarily, then down again, tears felling from her eyes once more. She nodded, then looked back up. 
Lawrence wiped her tears away a second time, and Holo took a deep breath. She wiped the lingering tears from the comers of her eyes 
almost violently 

For several moments afterward, her long, damp eyelashes sparkled. 

Holo sighed. “...I feel better.” 

She smudged away the final remnants of tears with one hand and, looking sheepish over her outburst, lightly punched Lawrence in 
the chest with a small fist. 

“It’s been centuries since I’ve had a proper conversatioa My emotions are fer too fragile. I’ve cried before you twice now, but I 
would have done it even if you had not been here. Do you understand what I’m saying?” 

Lawrence raised his hands and shrugged. ‘You’re telling me not to misunderstand.” 

“Mm-hm” 

Holo happily rubbed her balled-up fist around on Lawrence’s chest. 

She was befog almost unbearably dear just them and Lawrence couldn’t help but tease her a bit. 

“I only brought you along to help me make money anyway. Until the Milone Company concludes its negotiations, our job is to 
escape. Having someone crying and carrying on in the middle of that is just a burden. So regardless of who was crying in front of me. I’d 

Lawrence could proceed no further with his jape. 

Holo looked at him as if stricken. 

“...That’s not fair,” he grumbled. 

“Mm-hm. Female privilege.” 

Lawrence poked her head lightly for befog so shameless. 

The window by the driver’s seat opened, as if the driver had been waiting for the opportune moment. 

“We have arrived. Are you quite finished with your conversation?” 

“We surely are,” said Lawrence with affected enthusiasm as he removed the carriage floorboards 

madly. 

“It’s true, then, that people who brin g talk of profit are rather odd,” said the driver. 



He s mile d reluctantly. 

. Beside him, Holo snickered 




“What, you mean my ears?” said Holo mischievously. 

The driver laughed — she’d gotten the better of him . “It makes me want to return to my traveling merchant days, looking at you 

two.” 

“I wouldn’t if I were you,” said Lawrence, shoving the stone and co nfirming the tunnel was the right one. He then climbed back into 
the carriage to let Holo go first. “You might end up run ning into someone like her.” 

“Ah, but a wagon bench is too wide for just one. I’d wish to be so lucky!” 

Lawrence chuckled; nearly any merchant would feel the same way. 

Without another word, he descended into the tunneL Had he continued, he was sure he’d embarrass him self And in any case, Holo 
awaited him . 

“Surely / am the unfortunate one, to be picked up by the likes of you!” said Holo there in the darkness once the driver replaced the 
stone and drove away with a quiet rumble. 

Lawrence thought about how to turn the tables while the sound of a horses neigh echoed faintly above them, but ultimately decided 
that no matter what he said, Holo would win in the end. He gave in. 

“You’re too clever by half” 

“ ’Tis what makes me so charming,” said Holo, as if it were the most obvious thing in the world. What could he say to that? 

No, it’s because I’m always searching for a retort that I fall into her trap, he thought to him self 

He decided to take the most unexpected route. 

Lawrence coughed quietly. 

Then he looked away. “Well.. yes, you’re quite charming,” he said in the shiest, most bashful tone he could manage. 

There was no way she would anticipate such an answer, he was certain. 

He forced himself not to laugh in the darkness. As he expected, she was silent. 

Now, for the finishing blow, he thought. 

As he turned to face her, the softest sensation filled his hand. 

His min d went blank at the realization that it was Holo’s small, impossibly soft hand. 

“...I’m so happy.” 

Lawrence’s heart couldn’t help stirring at those sweet, reticent, girlish words. As if to punctuate it, her hand squeezed his ever so 
slightly, as if she were embarrassed with her admission of happiness. 

So it was Holo who dealt the finishing blow. 

‘You really are an adorable boy,” she said, amused at her own joke — which was even more irritating. Lawrence wasn’t angry with 
her for saying so, but rather him self for giving her the chance. 

And yet he didn’t think of letting her hand go, which felt somehow pathetic — and Holo’s holding Iris hand made him feel un 
reasonably pleased. 

‘Too clever by half” he murmured to him self 

It was quiet in the tunneL 

Then it filled with the echoes of Holo’s giggling . 




Chapter 6 



Holo stopped short, surely not because of the rat that scampered away with a squeak at her feet. 

There in the inky darkness, Lawrence turned to Holo. He wouldn’t lose her, as even now he held her hand. 

“What is it?” 

“Do you not feel a stirrin g in the air?” 

Lawrence wasn’t sure where exactly in the city they were, but the scent of clean water in the air suggested that it was somewhere 
near the marketplace. He could at least tell that they were well away from the river that flowed alongside the city. 

It was easy to imagine the countless people and horse-drawn carts passing above them. A bit of movement in the air was hardly 
surprising. 

“Isn’t it co ming from above?” he asked. 

“No...” said Holo. He could tell she was glancing this way and that. But they were in a tunnel — there were only two directions to 
go- 

“If I had whiskers I would be able to tell. 

“Are you sure it’s not your imagination?” 

“No., .there’s a sound. I can hear it. Water? The sound of splashes — ” 

Lawrence’s eyes widened at his instinctive thought — they were being pursued. 

“It’s from ahead. This won’t do. We must retreat.” 

Before Holo could finish, Lawrence had turned on his heel and began running. Holo scrambled to follow him . 

“There are no forks in this path, yes?” 

“The path we were taking was direct. Going the other way, there’s one branch. Take that, and it becomes a complicated labyrinth.” 
“I don’t know that even I could keep from getting lost here. ..whoops!” said Holo as she stopped in her tracks again. Their hands 
came apart at the sudden stop, and Lawrence stumbled. As he hurried to turn around, it seemed like Holo was lacing back the way they’d 
came. 

“You, cover your ears.” 

“What? Why?” 

“Even if we run, they’ll catch us. They’ve loosed the hounds on us.” 

If they were being pursued down a straight path by well-trained hounds, it was hopeless. Holo could see quite well in the dark, but 
the dogs had their noses and ears. They had no weapons with which to fend the beasts off save the silver dagger Lawrence always carried. 
They did have something rather houndlike, though — Holo the Wisewolf 

“Heh. So foolish- sounding, that baying,” said Holo. Lawrence could now faintly hear the hound’s cries. 

It may have only been the overlapping echoes, but from the sound, Lawrence guessed there were at least two animals. 

What was Holo planning? 

“I’m not certain what I’ll do if they’re too stupid to understand this. Anyway, cover your ears!” 

Lawrence did as he was told and plugged his ears. He’d figured it out — Holo was going to howl 

Holo took a long, deep breath. It lasted so long Lawrence began to wonder where all that air was going. There was a brief pause, 
and then she unleashed an earthshaking howl 
“Awooooooooooo ! ” 

The force of the great noise was enough to send shivers down Iris hands and set the skin on Iris face trembling. It seemed as though 
the tunnel was about to collapse. 

The wolf-howl was enough to strike fear into the heart of the strongest man. Lawrence forgot it was Holo howling and curled up 
into a ball 

The merchant remembered being chased across the plains by packs of wolves. They possessed overwhelming numbers, knowledge 
of the terrain, and physical strength no human could hope to match. They would bring all three to bear and attack — and the howl was the 
signal. That was why some villages, when stricken with plague, would imitate a wolf s howl to drive away the disease. 

Holo coughed, jaggedly. “Ugh.. .my throat...” Lawrence heard her coughing once the howl had subsided and took his hands down 
from his ears. 

It wasn’t surprising that such a great howl from such a small throat came with a price. 

“An apple... I want an apple... koff - — ” 

“You can have as many as you want once we’re free. What of the hounds?” 

“They turned tail and ran.” 

“Then we should do likewise. They’ll know where we are now.” 

“Do you know the way?” 

“More or less.” 

Before starting to run, Lawrence held his hand out to Holo, who gripped it firmly. 




E nsurin g that they wouldn’t be separated, Lawrence ran. It was about then that he heard the voices of their pursuers. 

“Still, how did they find us?” Holo asked. 

“I doubt they knew exactly where we were. They probably came underground after being unable to find us above and then 
happened to run into us.” 

“Ah.” 

“If they knew exactly where we were, they would’ve cornered us by now....” 

“I see. You’re quite right.” 

Directly ahead of them muffled voices could be distinguished, then a feint ray of light penetrated the dark tunnel. It was where they 
had first entered the passage. 

Lawrence had never been so optimistic as to t hin k that the Milone Company would come to their rescue. 

He drew a sharp breath as the realization washed over him like a splash of cold water and quickened his pace. 

Then a voice echoed down the passage. 

“The Milone Company has betrayed you! There’s no point in run nin '!” 

As if to avoid the voices, they turned down the single branch, and from behind them came the same words. Lawrence ignored them 
and continued to run, but Holo was uneasy 
“Sounds like we’ve been sold out.” 

“And for a high price, no doubt. As long as you’re here, the Milone Company will lose a branch, at the very least.” 

“...I see. That’s a high price, indeed.” 

If they were truly betrayed, Marheit would’ve been forced to put the entire branch on the line. If he’d really done so, he must’ve 
been planning to keep the branch’s money and escape by him self to some fer-off land. But it seemed unlikely that the huge Milone 
Company would let that happen, nor did he take Marheit for the kind of man to run. 

Which meant their pursuers were simply lying on the spot — but to someone unused to such tactics, like Holo, it could be effective. 
Holo nodded her head to indicate understanding, although her grip on his hand grew faintly tighter. 

“Right, we turn right here.” 

“Wait — ” 

Lawrence stopped immediately after rounding the comer. 

At the end of the slightly winding tunnel a lantern swayed. “There they are!” cried a voice. 

Lawrence immediately took Holo’s hand again and ran back along the path they’d first taken. Their pursuers broke into a run as 
well, but their footfalls did not reach Lawrence’s ears. 

‘Do you know — ” 

“ — the way? I do, it’s all right,” said Lawrence impatiently, but not because he was out of breath. The paths were strangely 
complicated, and all he could remember from what the Milone employees had told him were the paths that connected the entrance and exit. 
It wasn’t a lie to say he knew the way, but it wasn’t the truth, either. 

If which way to turn left or right, and after how many intersections, then it was true. If not, it was a lie. 

His head filled with strange illusions that threatened to blank everything out — the sound of a column of mice running through the 
forest — tripping over the rubble of a crumbled stone wall. Traveling merchants had to remember complicated figures about how much they 
owed and how much they were owed, so they tended to have confidence in their memory. But 
Lawrence’s confidence lasted for only a moment after he asserted it. 

The twisting tunnels were just too complicated. 

“Another dead end?” 

They’d gone a short distance after turning right at a T-junction before reaching the end. Lawrence kicked at the wall, breathing 
heavily. His actions made his worry clear, but Holo, her breathing also ragged, simply squeezed his hand tighter. 

The Medio Company had apparently decided it was important to capture both of them — and they’d sent ample manpower to 
accomplish it. 

Their footfalls and shouted voices echoed through the halls. They were so many that even Holo couldn’t be sure of their number. 
The companions’ anxiety made them imagine a great swarm of men pursuing them, more numerous than ants. 

‘Damn. We’ll have to head back. I don’t remember anything else.” 

If they pushed ahead into unknown passages, there would be no going back. 

Lawrence’s memories were already quite shaky, but seeing Holo nod her assent, he didn’t say so, not wanting her to feel any more 
uncertain. 

“Can you still run?” he asked. 

Lawrence was a hale and hardy traveling merchant, and despite Iris fatigue, he knew he could still run — but Holo could only nod 
her head in answer. 

Perhaps her human body wasn’t as capable as her wolf form 
“Just a bit,” she said hastily as she gasped for air. 

“Let’s find a place to...” Lawrence began. He was going to say “rest,” but he caught Holo’s glance and the word never got out of 
his throat. 

Her pupils glowed keenly in the darkness, every inch the forest predator scanning its surroundings. 

Heartened to have someone like Holo as his companion, Lawrence quieted his breathing and listened carefully 
Crunch, crunch came the sound of their pursuers’ cautious footsteps. 




From where Lawrence was standing, it sounded as if they were coming from a passage that led off to the right some distance 

ahead. 

The path they’d taken was now directly be hin d them If they doubled back on it, many possible paths branched off of it. They 
hoped to guess the timing and run back, then escape down one of those paths 

Crunch, crunch , came the sound as the footsteps grew closer. There was still a wall between them and the source of the noise, 
which was encouraging, but the footfalls were incessant — it was as though the Medio men were purposefully causing a commotion as they 
talked in some kind of incomprehensible code. 

Lawrence felt as though they’d already fallen into the trap, and their pursuers needed only to toss a net out to capture them 
He gulped painfully, gauging the timing for their sprint. 

He hoped to run as soon as there was another shout from the Medio Company people. 

It was not a long wait. 

“Ah, ah .. 

Another sound came from the direction of the footsteps. A sneeze. 

Lawrence took this as a blessing from the gods and grabbed Holo’s hand tightly in preparation to run. 

“Ah-choo!” 

It sounded as though whoever sneezed realized his mis take and tried to muffle the sound with a hand. 

But it was more than enough for the two to begin their flight. They turned left at the first junction. 

Just then, something black crossed in front of their faces. 

Lawrence realized it was no mere rat when Holo began to growL 
“Rrrrrr.” 

“Wha — shit! Here! They’re here!” 

A small, almost child-sized clump of darkness wove this way and that before Lawrence. He felt something hot on lfts left cheek. He 
realized it was a knife wound when he put his hand to it and felt the warm wetness there. 

When he realized that Holo had abandoned escape and even now had her teeth in the arm of their knife- wielding attacker, 
Lawrence, too, lost control. 

Strengthened by hauling loads heavier than themselves over mountains and across plains, traveling merchants had fists as hard as 

silver. 

Lawrence put all his strength behind his right fist as he punched, hitting the man Holo was attacking square in the face at a slightly 
upward angle. 

There was an awful squishing sound, as though a frog had just been stepped on, as Lawrence’s fist connected. 

With his other hand, Lawrence reached out for Holo and snagged the back of her shirt, pulling her back to him . 

The shadow that the fist had struck tumbled slowly backward. There was no time to say anything — Lawrence took off running, 
trying to find a different path. 

But he soon realized that the sneeze had been a ploy to flush them out. 

As the body hit the ground with a whump, Lawrence felt a shock, as if the blood in his veins suddenly reversed direction. 

The moment they tried to turn, a blade thrust directly into Lawrence. 

“O holy God, forgive me my sins... 

Hearing his opponents words, Lawrence realized this man intended to kill him . 

There in the darkness, his assailant held his breath, surely t hin kin g he had in fact slab his target. 

But the gods had not yet abandoned Lawrence. The knife found purchase b his left arm, just above his wrist. 

“Before you think about your sins,” said Lawrence, raisbg his leg and delivering a vicious kick to the man’s thigh, “regret your daily 

deeds!” 

The man dropped soundlessly, and Lawrence grabbed Holo’s sleeve with his right hand and sprinted past him . 

The sounds of the Medio Company closbg b echoed all around them 

They veered down a path to the left, then went bnnediately right — but not because of some plan or because Lawrence 
remembered the way. 

They simply ran. Stoppbg was not an option. Lawrence’s left arm felt heavy, as if it were sinking bto a swamp, and it burned as 
though impaled on a piece of red-hot iron. His left hand was cold, perhaps from the blood that flowed freely from the wound b his arm 

He would not be able to run much farther. Lawrence had been wounded several times b his travels. He knew the limits of lbs own 

body. 

It was hard to tell how far they'd come b the darkness. The confused echoes of their pursuers eroded his fad ing consciousness like 
rab over grasslands. 

When even their pursuers started to sound distant, he had no energy left with which to worry about Holo. He didn’t know how long 
he’d be able to keep gobg. 

“Lawrence.” 

When he heard someone calfing his name, he wondered if it was the Grim Reaper already. 

“Lawrence, are you all right?” 

He returned to himself with a start, rea lizing that he was leanbg against the wall of the tunnel. 

“What a relief You weren’t movbg when I called to you.” 

“...Ugh. I’m okay. Just a little sleepy,” Lawrence said. 




Lawrence wasn’t sure if he succeeded in smiling. An irritated Holo hit him in the chest. 

“Pull yourself together! We’re almost there.” 

“...We’re almost where?” 

“Did you not hear me? I said I can smell the warmth of the sun ahead. There must be a way to the surface close by.” 

Lawrence had no memory of hearing this at all, but he nodded, righting him self, and staggered forward. He realized his ann had 
been bandaged with cloth. 

“...This bandage?” 

“I tore my sleeves off to patch you up. You didn’t notice?” 

“Uh, no, of course I noticed. I’m fine.” Lawrence made sure to give a reassuring smile; Holo said nothing. When they continued 
walking, though, she led the way. 

“Just a bit farther. We’ll take this passage, then turn right...” she began, taking Lawrence’s hand — but then stopped short. He could 
tell why. 

More footsteps behind them 

“Hurry, hurry,” said Holo hoarsely Lawrence quickened his pace, feeling near the end of his strength. 

Although their pursuers were getting closer, they were still some distance off As long as they could climb to the surface, Lawrence 
ima gin ed they would be able to convince the citizenry to help them, given his condition. 

The Medio Company probably wouldn’t want a scene in front of so many witnesses. 

As long as she took the opportunity to contact the Milone Company, Holo’s escape would be enough. Hie top priority now was to 
meet with the Milone people again and restrategize. 

Lawrence mulled this over as he heaved his body forward, though it seemed to grow heavier by the second. At length, just as Holo 
said, he saw light ahead. 

The light shone from the upper right down to the left. The footsteps behind them grew closer, but it looked as if they were going to 

make it. 

Holo pulled harder on Lawrence’s arm to hurry him forward; he tried his best to keep up. 

At the end of the path, they turned right. 

“It goes to the surface — just a little farther!” 

Vitality had returned to Holo’s voice, and Lawrence pressed forward, encouraged. 

The prey had escaped the hunter by the slimmest of margins. 

Of that much Lawrence was certain. 

That is, until he heard Holo’s voice on the verge of tears. 

“N-no...” she said. 

Lawrence looked up. 

Even when he looked down, the light stung Iris eyes, which had adjusted to total darkness. It took him a few moments to focus, but 
once he did, he understood the reason for Holo’s dismay. 

Perhaps it was left over from when these tunnels supplied water. Uiere was an unused well there with light stabbing down through a 
round opening in the ceiling. 

But the hole in the ceiling was too high. Lawrence stretched and could just barely touch the ceiling, but the well opening was even 
higher than that. 

Without a rope or a ladder, it was simply impossible for the two of them to escape. 

Lawrence and Holo fell silent, despairing like loan sharks looking down the long path to heaven. 

Then, as if to co nfir m that they were well and truly cornered, the source of the footsteps behind them rounded the comer. 

“Found them!” a voice cried, at which point the pair finally looked back. 

Holo looked up at Lawrence, who drew Iris dagger with Iris good right hand, and with a movement so slow it was as if he were 
underwater, blocked the path between her and their pursuers. 

“Back up.” 

Lawrence planned to advance, but his legs had no more strength left in them He was rooted to the spot, unable to take another 

step. 

‘You can’t — you’re through!” said Holo. 

‘Hardly. I can still move,” Lawrence managed in a nonchalant tone. Turning to look at her over his shoulder would’ve been 
impossible, though. 

‘Tool, you don’t need my ears to know that’s a lie,” snapped Holo. Lawrence ignored her and fixed his gaze straight ahead. 

He saw five Medio men at a glance. Each wielded a knife or staff and more footsteps signaled reinforcements on the way. 

Despite their overwhelming advantage, the five men did not converge, choosing instead to stop at the comer and scrutinize the pair. 
Lawrence imagined they were waiting for backup, though five men were more than sufficient to take both him and his companion. 
Lawrence was obviously in no shape for a fight, and Holo was just a girl 

But the men held fast, and at length more arrived. The first five looked back, then stepped aside. 

“Ah — ” Holo made a sound as a figure rounded the comer. Lawrence, too, nearly spoke. 

The man rounding the comer was none other than Yarei. 

“I wondered, given the description we got,” he said. “But to think it really was you, Lawrence.” 

I I nlik e the residents who lived within the city walls, or the dusty, sweaty merchants that traveled between them, Yarei wore the 




colors of the sun and the earth and looked almost sad as he spoke. 

“I’m just as surprised,” said Lawrence. “Most of Pasloe thinks only of sickle or hoe at the mention of metal — to t hin k they’d be 
involved in such a grand silver scheme.” 

“There are few who understand this transaction,” said Yarei, as if it wasn’t Iris village at all, which was understandable given his 
attire. The depth of his connection with the Medio Company was self-evident in its color and texture. 

A humble farmer would never be able to afford such finery. “Let’s catch up later, shall we? We’ve no time for it now.” 

“Come now, Yarei — I came all the way to your village and still wasn’t able to see you.” 

“Ah, but you met someone else, didn’t you?” Yarei glanced past Lawrence to Holo behind him . “I wouldn’t have thought it 
possible, but she really is right out of the fairy tales. The wolf-spirit incarnate, responsible for harvests great and poor.” 

Lawrence felt Holo flin ch but didn’t turn to look at her. 

“Hand her over,” Yarei demanded. “We’ll give her to the Church and put the old ways to rest forever!” He took a step forward. 
“Lawrence, if we have her, we can destroy the Milone Company. Then once we’ve abolished the wheat tariff the wheat of our vil- 
lage will be hugely profitable, and we who sell it rich men. Nothing is so profitable as an untaxed commodity.” 

Yarei was two paces from them when Holo grabbed Lawrence’s shirt. Despite his dizziness, he could feel her hands trembling. 
“Lawrence, our village still remembers that you bought wheat from us when we were suffering under heavy taxation. It would be no 
trouble to give you purchasing priority now. And were friends, nay? Surely as a merchant you can figure gain and loss.” 

Yarei’s words sank slowly into Lawrence’s consciousness. Selling untaxed wheat would be like plucking gold from the stalks. If he 
took Yarei up on his offer, his fortunes would surely rise. When he’d saved enough, he could open a shop in Pazzio — and with those wheat 
options as his weapon, he’d continue to expand his business. 

Yarei promised the fu lfillm ent of his dreams. 

“Off I can figure gain and loss all right,” said Lawrence. 

“Ho, Lawrence!” said Yarei brightly, his arms wide in welcome. Holo tightened her grip on Lawrence’s shirt. 

Lawrence used the last of his strength to turn back to Holo, who looked up at him . 

Her amber eyes saddened as she looked at him ; she soon closed them 
Lawrence slowly turned back around. 

“However, a merchant must always honor his contracts,” he said. 

“Lawrence?” asked Yarei suspiciously. 

Lawrence continued. “As fate would have it, this strange girl I’ve picked up wishes to return to the northlands. I have a contract to 
accompany her there. Breaking that contract is something I cannot do, Yarei” 

‘You — ” a shocked Holo began as Lawrence stared down Yarei 

Yarei shook his head in disbelief sighing deeply, then looked at Lawrence. “In that case, I have no choice but to fulfill my 
contract.” 

He raised his right hand, and the gathered Medio henchmen, who’d only watched until that point, took aggressive stances. 

“I’m sorry our friendship was a short one, Lawrence.” 

“A traveling merchant is always saying good-bye,” replied Lawrence. 

‘You can kill the man. Bring the girl alive.” Yarei’s voice was cold now, like a different person entirely. The Medio lackeys 
advanced. 

Lawrence held the dagger last in his right hand, but he was still unable to take a step either forward or back. 

If he could somehow buy them just a bit more time, the Milone Company might yet come to their rescue. He clung to that hope as 
he waved the dagger about clumsily. 

In that moment, Holo flung her arms around him . 

“H-Holo, what are you — ” 

Her slender arms held him fast, then forced him to the ground. 

He wondered where she’d gotten this sudden strength, but then realized it was probably because he had no power left to resist. 
Holo couldn’t actually support his weight, so Lawrence half fell backward, landing on his rear. The inpact dislodged the k nife from 
his hand. 

Lawrence reached for the dagger and tried to get up, but he couldn’t manage it. Unable to support even his outstretched arm, he 
fell forward. 

“Holo... the dagger...” 

“That’s enough.” 

‘Holo?” 

She gave no response save putting her hand to Lawrence’s out stretched arm 
“This may hurt a bit. Please bear it.” 

“What—” 

Lawrence failed to utter another word before Holo undid the bandage on his left arm and s niffe d at the exposed wound. 

Suddenly his memory returned. He recalled their conversation when they first met, when he made her prove she was truly a wolf 
He remembered her nonchalant reply. 

To assume her wolf form, she needed either a bit of wheat or... 

...Fresh blood. 

“What are you doing! Hurry, take them!” Yarei shouted, and the Medio henchmen — whose advance had been stalled by Holo’s 




strange actions — regained their senses and began to close in. 

Holo closed her eyes, bared her fangs, and sank them into Lawrence’s wound. “Sh-she’s drinkin g his blood!” 

Holo opened her eyes slightly at the shout and glanced at Lawrence. 

He couldn’t have conjectured as to his own expression, but Holo seemed to s mile sadly at him . 

After all, only a demon would drink blood. 

“Don’t fell back! She’s only a possessed girl! Get her!” Yarei’s exhortations were no use; the men were frozen in their tracks. 

Holo slowly pulled her mouth back from Lawrence’s arm; her transformation had already begun. 

“I’ll always...” she began as her long hair began to stir, trans-forming into animal fur. Her anns, visible through her tom sleeves, 
took the form of wolf paws. 

“I’ll always remem b er that you chose me.” 

She cleaned the blood from the comer of her mouth with her bright red tongue rather than her hand, an image that lingered with 
Lawrence. 

“Lawrence — ” she said, standing and feeing him . She had a small, sad s mile on her fece as she spoke her final words. 

“Please don’t look at me.” 

Her body grew up and out rapidly to the sound of tearing fabric, brown fur nearly exploding through it. Her wheat pouch fell to the 
ground among the tatters of clothing. 

Lawrence automatically reached out for the wheat in which Holo lived. When he looked back up, a massive wolf stood before him . 

Its paws were tipped with scythe like claws, and its teeth were so large that the shape of each feng was clearly visible. It looked 
capable of eating a man in a single bite. 

The wolf was so massive that the very air around it felt heavy and hot — as if one might melt by mere proximity. In spite of that, its 
eyes were cool and calculating. 

There was no escape. 

Every man in the tunnel came to the same conclusion at once. 

“Aaaaauuggh!” The single cry was the trigger. Most of the assailants dropped their weapons and ran. Two men hurled their 
weapons at the wolf, mostly out of terror. 

The beast moved its muzzle adroitly, picking up each iron weapon in turn and crushing it between massive jaws. 

This was a god. 

In the northlands, the word “god” was used to describe anything beyond a human’s ability to engage. 




Lawrence had never understood that de fin ition until now — and now he understood it all too well 
There was nothing anyone could do to this wolf Nothing at all 
‘thill ■” 

“Wha — ” 

The two that threw their weapons made strangled exclamations that were barely worthy of the term 

The wolf swatted them aside with a massive paw, then ran forward, seeming almost to slide over the ground. 

“ None of you will leave here alive!" a low, bestial voice echoed. The sounds of claw striking iron mingled with the cries of the 
felled as Lawrence frantically tried to right him self 
But the massacre ended in an instant. 

The wolf paused, and the voice of perhaps the last man left alive was audible. 

“G-gods are always like that. .. always.. .unfair...” It was Yarei s voice. 

There was no response but the sound of the colossal wolfopening its jaws. Lawrence cried out. 

“Holo, no!” 

There was a snap, surely those same jaws closing. 

The image ofYarei’s torso in Holo’s fangs came unbidden to Lawrence’s min d. It was unthinkable that Yarei could escape. He 
was a bird with no chance to avoid the hound’s attack. 

But after a few moments of silence, Holo turned around in the narrow passageway, and her teeth were not smeared with the blood 
Lawrence expected. 

Instead, an unconscious Yarei dangled helplessly from her fangs. 

“Holo...” Lawrence murmured her name in relief but Holo merely dropped Yarei to the ground and did not look at him . 

A low voice sounded. 

“ The wheat..." 

The growl suited the great body, and Lawrence cringed to hear it. 

He knew it was Holo, but he couldn’t help him self If she looked straight at him , he didn’t know if he’d be able to stay composed. 
The wolf demanded his awe. 

“ The wheat — bring it to me," repeated Holo. Lawrence nodded and held out the pouch of wheat in his hand. 

Just then, Lawrence felt a heavy pressure, and his body recoiled from it. 

When he saw Holo’s lip curl over her fanged jaw, he realized he’d made a terrible mis take. 

“ That is your answer. Now, the wheat — ” 

Although he knew that Holo intended to take the wheat and leave, her words, as if by some strange magic, compelled Iris annto 
reach out and hand it over. 

But he lacked the strength to support the arm or even to hold the pouch. 

First the pouch fell from his limp hand to the ground, then his arm collapsed against him . 

He wouldn’t be able to pick it up again. 

Lawrence looked at the pouch in despair. 

“7 thank you for taking care of me," said Holo as she approached, deftly picking up the small bag in her massive jaws. 

Those amber eyes never once glanced at Lawrence as she backed up one, two, three steps, then turned dexterously hi the small 
tunnel and began to walk away. 

The white-tipped tail that was Holo’s pride and joy caught his eye. It was ma gnific ent as it waved sadly and receded down the 
passage. 

Lawrence shouted. His voice was so weak it could barely be considered a shout, but he sounded with all his remai ning strength. 
“W-wait!” 

Holo kept walking. 

Lawrence despised himself for recoiling at her approach earlier. How many times had she said that she hated when people 
regarded her with fear. 

But his body had reacted instinctively. Humans couldn’t help that they feared the unknown, and so he had cowered before Holo. 
Still, Lawrence thought. Still, he called out her name. 

“Holo!” shouted his hoarse voice. 

It was useless, he realized — and just then, Holo stopped. 

This was his chance. If he couldn’t change her min d here, he would never see her again. 

But what to say? Scenarios flitted in and out of his min d. 

He couldn’t convincingly claim he wasn’t afraid of her. Her fonn still terrified him But he wanted to stop her. He couldn’t find the 
words to express the co nflic t he felt. 

His mind worked frantically. No doubt Holo would’ve mocked him for being inarticulate as he tried to put together the words that 
would bring her back. 

“How... how much do you t hin k the clothes you destroyed cost?” was what he finally came up with. “I don’t care if you’re a god or 
not.. .I’ll see you pay me back! You earned but seventy silver pieces — that’s not nearly enough!” 

He yelled at her, trying to sound angry — no, he was genuinely half- angry. 

He knew that begging her not to go would be pointless. As he was still terrified of her form, he could only conjure this single reason 




to prevent her going. 

The grudge a merchant will bear over money is deeper than a valley, and a merchant collecting a debt is more persistent than the 
moon in the night sky. 

Lawrence put as much venom into Iris words as he could to convey that. He was not telling her that he didn’t want her to leave. He 
was telling her that leaving would be pointless. 

“How many years do you t hin k it took me. ..to save up that much money? I’ll follow you.. .I’ll follow you all the way back to the 
northlands, if I have to!” 

Lawrence’s voice echoed through the underground tunnels for a while before finally lading. 

Holo stood there awhile, then flicked her large tail 

Was she going to turn around? 

Lawrence’s strength finally tailed him , and he collapsed to the ground even as his chest filled with a nervous impatience. 

Holo began walking again. 

Her paws pattered softly against the floor of the passage: tupp, tupp. 

Lawrence felt his vision grow dim 

I’m not crying, the merchant told him self as his consciousness sank into eternity. 




Epilogue 



Lawrence stood in utter darkness. Where he was and what he was doing there he did not kn ow. 

Darkness hung in every direction, but strangely, he could see his own body. 

He wondered where he was. 

As he pondered it, he caught a flash of something out of the comer of his eye. 

He turned to lace it reflexively, but there was nothing. He rubbed his eyes, thinking it had been Iris imagination, when again the 
shape flitted across the comer of his vision. 

Was it a flame? 

He turned again to lace it and this time managed a good view of the shape. 

It was a chestnut-brown something, waving. 

He stared at it, finally rea lizing that it was no flame. 

It was fur. It was a long clump of brown fur that waved. 

And it was tipped with a white tuft. 

Lawrence’s eyes widened and his breath caught. He sprinted toward it. 

That tail — that white tuft — ! 

It was Holo. There was no mistaking Holo’s taiL 

It grew smaller as it waved, and Lawrence called out for it as he ran with all his might. 

But no sound issued from his mouth, and the distance to Holo’s tail never di minis hed. 

His feet seemed to grow heavier, which frustrated him . He gritted his teeth and, even as he realized the futility of it, stretched out his 
right hand. 

Holo’s tail abmptly disappeared. 

At that moment, Lawrence blinked and looked up at an unfamiliar ceiling. 

“Ugh—” 

He sat up with a start and pain immediately shot through his left aim For a moment he was confused, but the pain brought his 
memories back in a rush. 

The Medio Company pursuing him . His arm being stabbed. Being cornered. 

And Holo leaving him . 

Remembering her tail waving forlornly as she receded, Lawrence sighed. 

Trapped in a body that could sit up only with effort, he wondered if there was anything else he could have said to her. 

The question loomed in his mind, dwarfing the more immediate issue of where he was. 

“Ah, so you’re awake, are you?” 

Lawrence turned to lace the unexpected voice, and saw Marheit in the doorway. 

“How are your injuries?” Marheit walked toward Lawrence, documents in hand, and opened the window beside the merchant’s 

bed. 

“Better... thanks to you.” 

A pleasant breeze blew in through the window, carrying sounds of hustle and bustle from which Lawrence inferred that he was in a 
room at the Milone Company. 

Which meant they had come to his rescue after alL 

“I must apologize for putting you in such danger through our ineptitude.” 

“No, no, my companion was the cause of all this originally.” 

Marheit nodded at Lawrence’s words and paused, seeming to choose his next statement carefully. 

“Fortunately you were never discovered by the Church, and the disturbance happened underground. If the Church had seen your 
companions true form, weft. .it’s quite possible the entire company would’ve been burned as heretics.” 

“You saw her true form?” Lawrence asked, stunned. 

“Indeed. The people we sent to rescue you returned with a report that there was a giant wolf that said it wouldn’t hand you over 
until I came personally.” 

There was no reason for Marheit to lie. Which meant that after Lawrence lost consciousness, Holo returned to him . 

“What of Holo, then? Where is she?” 

“She’s gone on to the marketplace. She was quite impatient and said she needed traveling clothes,” said Marheit lightly, not 
knowing the circumstances — but Lawrence guessed that Holo planned to set off on her own. 

She was probably on her way to the northland even now. 

The thought left a hole in Lawrence’s heart but perversely also helped him feel that he could now make a clean break. 

The days they had spent together had been nothing more than a strange coincidence. 

Lawrence forced him self to consider it thus, brin ging himself back to the min dset of a merchant. 




Aside from Holo, there was another important implication in Marheit s words. 

“You said Holo went to the marketplace. Does that mean negotiations with the Medio Company went well?” 

‘Yes. Our messenger returned from the Trenni castle this morning, concluding negotiations with the king. We’ve obtained the 
considerations that the Medio Company so desperately wanted, and they seem to have acknowledged their defeat. Everything has gone 
very smoothly,” said Marheit, pride filling his voice. 

“I see. That’s good to hear.. ..So Eve slept for a lull day then, have I?” 

“Hm? Oh, yes, yes you have. Would you care for some lunch? I was just in the kitchen, and I doubt they’ve turned off the stoves 
yet, so you could have something hot.” 

“No, that’s quite all right. Could I perhaps hear the final results of our negotiation?” 

‘Yes, of course.” 

Lawrence found it slightly odd that someone from the south wasn’t forcing food on him . Perhaps if he’d been from this area, 
Marheit would’ve been more insistent. 

“The amount of silver we collected came to 307,212 pieces. The king plans to significantly cut the silver content of these coins, so 
he agreed to pay an amount equivalent to 350,000 pieces.” 

It was a staggering figure. Lawrence was not t hin kin g about the absolute numbers, though — he was busy figuring his own 
approximate gain. 

He was contractually entitled to five percent of the Milone Company’s profit. Lawrence estimated it would come out to something 
in the neighborhood of two thousand silver pieces. 

It would be enough for him to fulfill his dream, to open his own shop. 

“According to our contract with you, Mr. Lawrence, we owe you five percent of our profit. Is that correct?” 

Lawrence nodded, and Marheit nodded back. 

Marheit then handed Lawrence a single sheet of paper. “Please co nfir m t his ,” he said. 

Lawrence didn’t hear him . 

An unbelievable figure was written on the paper. 

“Wha... what’s...” 

“One hundred and twenty pieces — five percent of our profit,” said Marheit coolly. 

Yet Lawrence did not become angry. The paper made it clear what had happened to the gain they’d expected. 

“The cost of transporting the coins, the transfer fee when the king paid us, the silver tax, and the cost of processing the contract. His 
advisers undoubtedly put him up to it. They knew they would have to give up those special privileges but wanted to limit their losses on the 
silver exchange as much as they could.” 

Looking at the details, he could see that the king had very cleverly exploited his position to get as much money back from the 
Milone Company as he could. 

In addition to requiring that the company pay for the collection and transport of the coins, he made them remit the silver coins 
directly rather than using a note of exchange. The transportation had been hugely expensive, running into the tens of thousands of pieces 
after including horses, lockboxes for the money, and guards. 

The king had even charged them an exorbitant amount for the drawing up of the contracts. 

Though the signer on the Milone side was a wealthy merchant of noble descent from the south who operated his own branch of a 
large company, he was far from a king. There was no question of who held the upper hand. The Milone Company had to simply accept the 
charges. 

“We calculate that our final profit was twenty- four hundred pieces, five percent of which were remitting to you as per our 
agreement.” 

Lawrence had schemed like a man possessed, been stabbed in the arm... for one hundred twenty silver coins. 

When he considered that if he hadn’t gotten involved in this business, Holo might not have left him, the only figures he saw in his 
min d were red. It simply hadn’t been worth one hundred twenty coins. 

But a contract was a contract. He had no choice but to accept it. Sometimes there were gains in life, and sometimes there were 
losses. It was a simple reality of being a merchant. He supposed that he should be happy not to have lost his life and to have come out one 
hundred twenty silver pieces ahead. 

Lawrence slowly nodded. 

“This was not something we expected. The outcome is regrettable,” said Marheit. 

“Unexpected outcomes are part and parcel of business,” replied Lawrence. 

“It is generous of you to say so. However,” said Marheit, getting Lawrence’s attention again — Marheit’s tone had brightened for 
some reason. 

“Unexpected situations can also work out happily. Here.” 

Lawrence accepted a second sheet of paper from Marheit, his eyes flicking over its contents. 

He immediately looked back up at Marheit in shock. 

“The Medio Company badly wanted those special privileges, and they knew the silver they’d collected was going to depreciate 
rapidly soon, so it was like holding on to debt. They expected they’d be able to turn a profit with that tariff authority, and they would do 
anything to get it. They made us an offer almost immediately.” 

The document in Lawrence’s hand stated that his share of the profit from this exchange was one thousand silver pieces. 

“A thousand pieces... is this really acceptable?” 




“It is a trifle” said Marheit with a smile. The Milone Company had no doubt made much more than that, but Lawrence was not so 
rude as to ask the exact figure. After all, being offered an extra- contractual amount like this was like picking up a bar of gold on the street. 
Contracts were the core of commerce — monetary exchanges without them might as well have been nonexistent. 

“Also, we’ve taken care of the fees for your convalescence, and we’ll handle the care of your horse and wagon.” 

“Was my horse unhurt?” 

“Yes — it seems even the Medio Company didn’t find much worth in him as a hostage.” 

Lawrence couldn’t help s miling at Marheit’ s hearty laugh. 

This was all tar better treatment than he had any right to expect. 

“We’ll discuss the payment details and so on another day, then, shall we?” said Marheit. 

“That will be fine. Thank you so much, truly.” 

“Hardly; the pleasure is all ours. It is a small price to pay to remain in the good graces of a merchant of your ability, Mr. 
Lawrence.” 

Marheit looked at Lawrence with eyes that rarely missed a calculation, and he smiled his best merchant’s s mile — probably on 
purpose. 

Still, the tact remained that Lawrence had received a thousand silver pieces from the branch supervisor of the huge company. They 
clearly thought of him as a person with whom a good relationship was important. 

A mere traveling merchant like Lawrence should be pleased by that. 

He nodded and thanked Marheit from his bed. 

“Oh, I suppose I should ask,” said Marheit, “do you wish payment to be in silver? If you would prefer a different commodity, that 
can be arranged.” 

A thousand coins would be heavy and would bring no particular benefit for the weight. Lawrence considered Marheits proposal, 
t hin kin g about the amount he’d been promised and the size of his wagon, and a single item came to min d. 

“Have you any pepper? It’s light and compact, and as winter fells, its price will surely rise as meat becomes more available.” 
“Pepper, you say?” 

“Is there a problem?” asked Lawrence, seeing Marheit chuckle. 

“No, not at aft I recently read a play we received from the south, and that re min ded me of it.” 

“A play?” 

“Indeed. A demon appears belbre a wealthy merchant and says, ‘Bring me the most delicious, succulent human you can, or I’ll 
devour you.’ Not wanting to die, the merchant presents the demon with the youngest, most beautiful maids in his house, and the plumpest 
footmen. But the demon shakes his head in disapproval” 

"I see." 

“So the merchant scatters money throughout the city, searching for a suitable person. Finally he finds a handsome young monk who 
smells of milk and honey. He throws gold at the monastery to buy the lad and brings him before the demon. But the boy says, ‘Oh ye 
demon who fights the gods, the most savory human in the land is not I. ’ ” 

Lawrence was completely absorbed in the tale. He nodded wordlessly. 

“ ‘The most succulent human is before your very eyes — he Iras earned spices day in and day out in Iris quest lor money, and his 
fattened soul is perfectly seasoned,”’ continued Marheit cheerfully, gesturing expansively as he related the tale. In the end, he even imitated 
the wealthy merchant’s terrified face before catching himself and grin ning sheepishly. 

“It’s a religious play that the Church uses to preach moderation in commerce,” he explained. “That’s what I remembered. Pepper is 
surely appropriate for a merchant about to make his fortune, I t hin k.” 

Lawrence couldn’t help s miling at the amusing tale and Marheit’s praise. “I hope I soon have a body suffused with spices myself ” 

he said. 

“We’ll look forward to that, and to many fruitful dealings in the future, Mr. Lawrence,” said Marheit, and the two smiled at each 
other again. 

“I’ll see to your pepper. In the meantime, I have work to do...” Marheit backed toward the exit. 

Just then, there was a knock at the door. 

“Perhaps that’s your companion,” said Marheit, but Lawrence was confident that such a thing was impossible. 

Marheit left the bedside to open the door, and Lawrence, his head on a pillow, looked out the window. 

He could see the blue sky. 

“Overseer, sir. We’ve received this bill — ” Lawrence heard the door open and a reserved voice speaking to Marheit, along with 
the sound of a slip of paper being handed over. 

It was undoubtedly some urgent business. Lawrence looked up at the small clouds in the sky and wondered when he would be able 
to have his own shop. 

He soon heard Marheit speak. 

“This is definitely addressed to our company, but...” 

Lawrence looked back over at Marheit, who was looking at him . 

“Mr. Lawrence, a bill’s come for you.” 

The names of Lawrence’s many trading partners and the debts he owed flashed through his min d. 

He tried to think of which among them had an approaching settlement date, but in any case the amount of time he would remain in a 
given city was uncertain. Even if there’d been a settlement date yesterday, he couldn’t think of anyone that would hold a traveling merchant 




to such a strict time frame. 

And who would even know he was here? 

“Could I see it, please?” he asked. 

Marheit took the bill from his subordinate and brought it to Lawrence. 

Lawrence took it and skipped past the standard contractual section, co ming to the details at the end. 

He thought that if he could see what the bill was for, it might tell him who it was from 
But the items on the bill did not ring any bells. 

“Hmm..” Lawrence said, cocking his head curiously, but suddenly he sat bolt upright. 

Marheit, shocked, tried to say something, but Lawrence ignored him and ran for the door, pushing it open and ignoring the pain in 
his left arm 

“Um, excuse me — ” 

“Let me by!” shouted Lawrence, and the shocked employee made way. Lawrence ignored the strange look he received and ran 
down the hallway before stopping. 

“Where’s the loading dock?” he demanded. 

“Er, follow this hall to the end, turn left, and it’ll be — ” 

“Thanks,” said Lawrence shortly, dashing off 

The rather expensive bill crumpled in his hand as Lawrence ran as last as his strength would allow. 

It was the contents of that crumpled bill that had Lawrence in such a state. 

The date on the bill was today, and it included items from a Pazzio textile merchant and a fruit seller. 

There were two high-quality women’s robes with silk sashes, a pair of traveling shoes, a tortoiseshell comb — and a large amount of 

apples. 

In total it all came to a hundred and fifty silver pieces, and the apples in particular were far too numerous for one person to carry. 
Despite that, there was no entry on the bill for the use of a horse or cart. 

There was an obvious conclusion. 

Lawrence arrived at the loading dock. 

Mountains of products of every sort were lined up, with everything from goods brought from afar to exports about to leave. The 
dock overflowed with the horses and the shouts of people — the chaotic scene was just another day at the prosperous Milone Company. 
Lawrence scanned the surroundings for what he knew must be there. 

The large loading area was filled with horses and carts. Lawrence ran around, even slipping on a clump of scattered hay, before 
catching a glim pse of his own fa milia r horse and wagon and approaching it. 

The other people working in the loading area looked at him strangely, but Lawrence took no notice of them, fixated on just one 

thing. 

In front of a wagon bed piled high with apples, a small figure held a beautiful piece of for in her hand, combing it with a tortoiseshell 

comb. 

She wore an obviously expensive robe and a hood pulled low over her head. After a time, she ceased her combing and sighed. 

Not turning toward Lawrence, the figure in the seat of the wagon spoke. “I wouldn’t wish you to come to the northern forests 
simply to collect on a debt.” 

Lawrence couldn’t help laughing at her sullen tone. 

He approached the seat, and though Holo stubbornly refused to look at him , he extended his right hand. 

Finally she glanced at him , and although she soon returned her gaze to the tail in her hands, she reached out to him . 

Lawrence took her hand, and she finally relented to a smile, 

“I’ll return home only after I’ve paid my debt.” 

“But of course!” 

Holo’s hand gripped Lawrence’s very, very tightly. 



It seemed as though the travels of this strange pair would last a bit longer. 
That is to say, the travels of the wolf and the spice. 




Afterword 



Since I began entering writing contests with prize money involved, I’ve never been able to stop thinking about win ning the grand 

prize. 

Then, I think about using the prize money to buy stocks, increasing my investment, and pretty soon I’m daydreaming about ruling 
the world with my vast wealth. 

Lately I’ve made enough money that I can order an extra- large bowl of soba from the soba stand without worrying about it. 

My name is Hasekura Isuna. 

Recently winning the silver medal of the 12th Dengeki Sho-setsu Prize is an honor roughly equivalent to win ning the moon in the 
sky. I couldn’t believe it. I had three different dreams in which I got a phone call that they’d mix ed me up with somebody else. 

When I started editing the manuscript, I had two dreams that I’d missed the deadline. 

I have no idea how many times I dreamed that I was wealthy enough to rule the world. 

In lact, as I write this afterword, I’m wondering even now whether this is a dream or reality. 

To the pre-readers, editors, and prize selection committee members that opened the door to this world of dreams, I give my most 
humble thanks. 

Also to the people at the prize- acceptance party who raised their voices in support; and most especially to Mitsutaka Yuki- sensei, 
who gave me a silver wolf accessory in connection with the Spice and Wolf title, I want to say thank you so much. Hie little silver wolf is 
even now enshrined by my computer. 

I must also thank Asakura Jyuu-sensei for the gorgeous illustrations. They captured my characters perfectly. I hope my thanks are 
as great as my surprise at seeing them 

To all the people, things, and events responsible for putting me in the position I’m in today: Thank you so much. 

It is my intention to put forth every effort to ensure that I never wake from this fleeting dream 

— Hasekura Isuna